O () O, the fifteenth letter of the English alphabet, derives its form, value, and name from the Greek O, through the Latin. The letter came into the Greek from the Ph/nician, which possibly derived it ultimately from the Egyptian. Etymologically, the letter o is most closely related to a, e, and u; as in E. bone, AS. ban; E. stone, AS. stan; E. broke, AS. brecan to break; E. bore, AS. beran to bear; E. dove, AS. d/fe; E. toft, tuft; tone, tune; number, F. nombre.

O () Among the ancients, O was a mark of triple time, from the notion that the ternary, or number 3, is the most perfect of numbers, and properly expressed by a circle, the most perfect figure.

O's (pl. ) of O

Oes (pl. ) of O

O (n.) The letter O, or its sound.

O (n.) Something shaped like the letter O; a circle or oval.

O (n.) A cipher; zero.

O' () A prefix to Irish family names, which signifies grandson or descendant of, and is a character of dignity; as, O'Neil, O'Carrol.

O' (prep.) A shortened form of of or on.

O (a.) One.

O (interj.) An exclamation used in calling or directly addressing a person or personified object; also, as an emotional or impassioned exclamation expressing pain, grief, surprise, desire, fear, etc.

Oad (n.) See Woad.

Oaf (n.) Originally, an elf's child; a changeling left by fairies or goblins; hence, a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an idiot.

Oafish (a.) Like an oaf; simple.

Oak (n.) Any tree or shrub of the genus Quercus. The oaks have alternate leaves, often variously lobed, and staminate flowers in catkins. The fruit is a smooth nut, called an acorn, which is more or less inclosed in a scaly involucre called the cup or cupule. There are now recognized about three hundred species, of which nearly fifty occur in the United States, the rest in Europe, Asia, and the other parts of North America, a very few barely reaching the northern parts of South America and Africa. Many of the oaks form forest trees of grand proportions and live many centuries. The wood is usually hard and tough, and provided with conspicuous medullary rays, forming the silver grain.

Oak (n.) The strong wood or timber of the oak.

Oaken (a.) Made or consisting of oaks or of the wood of oaks.

Oaker (n.) See Ocher.

Oakling (n.) A young oak.

Oakum (n.) The material obtained by untwisting and picking into loose fiber old hemp ropes; -- used for calking the seams of ships, stopping leaks, etc.

Oakum (n.) The coarse portion separated from flax or hemp in nackling.

Oaky (n.) Resembling oak; strong.

Oar (n) An implement for impelling a boat, being a slender piece of timber, usually ash or spruce, with a grip or handle at one end and a broad blade at the other. The part which rests in the rowlock is called the loom.

Oar (n) An oarsman; a rower; as, he is a good oar.

Oar (n) An oarlike swimming organ of various invertebrates.

Oared (imp. & p. p.) of Oar

Oaring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oar

Oar (v. t. & i.) To row.

Oared (a.) Furnished with oars; -- chiefly used in composition; as, a four-oared boat.

Oared (a.) Having feet adapted for swimming.

Oared (a.) Totipalmate; -- said of the feet of certain birds. See Illust. of Aves.

Oarfish (n.) The ribbon fish.

Oarfoot (n.) Any crustacean of the genus Remipes.

Oar-footed (a.) Having feet adapted for swimming.

Oarless (a.) Without oars.

Oarlock (n.) The notch, fork, or other device on the gunwale of a boat, in which the oar rests in rowing. See Rowlock.

Oarsmen (pl. ) of Oarsman

Oarsman (n.) One who uses, or is skilled in the use of, an oar; a rower.

Oarsweed (n.) Any large seaweed of the genus Laminaria; tangle; kelp. See Kelp.

Oary (a.) Having the form or the use of an oar; as, the swan's oary feet.

Oases (pl. ) of Oasis

Oasis (n.) A fertile or green spot in a waste or desert, esp. in a sandy desert.

Oast (n.) A kiln to dry hops or malt; a cockle.

Oats (pl. ) of Oat

Oat (n.) A well-known cereal grass (Avena sativa), and its edible grain; -- commonly used in the plural and in a collective sense.

Oat (n.) A musical pipe made of oat straw.

Oatcake (n.) A cake made of oatmeal.

Oaten (a.) Consisting of an oat straw or stem; as, an oaten pipe.

Oaten (a.) Made of oatmeal; as, oaten cakes.

Oaths (pl. ) of Oath

Oath (n.) A solemn affirmation or declaration, made with a reverent appeal to God for the truth of what is affirmed.

Oath (n.) A solemn affirmation, connected with a sacred object, or one regarded as sacred, as the temple, the altar, the blood of Abel, the Bible, the Koran, etc.

Oath (n.) An appeal (in verification of a statement made) to a superior sanction, in such a form as exposes the party making the appeal to an indictment for perjury if the statement be false.

Oath (n.) A careless and blasphemous use of the name of the divine Being, or anything divine or sacred, by way of appeal or as a profane exclamation or ejaculation; an expression of profane swearing.

Oathable (a.) Capable of having an oath administered to.

Oathbreaking (n.) The violation of an oath; perjury.

Oatmeal (n.) Meal made of oats.

Oatmeal (n.) A plant of the genus Panicum; panic grass.

Ob- () A prefix signifying to, toward, before, against, reversely, etc.; also, as a simple intensive; as in oblige, to bind to; obstacle, something standing before; object, lit., to throw against; obovate, reversely, ovate. Ob- is commonly assimilated before c, f, g, and p, to oc-, of-, og-, and op-.

Obcompressed (a.) Compressed or flattened antero-posteriorly, or in a way opposite to the usual one.

Obconic (a.) Alt. of Obconical

Obconical (a.) Conical, but having the apex downward; inversely conical.

Obcordate (a.) Heart-shaped, with the attachment at the pointed end; inversely cordate: as, an obcordate petal or leaf.

Obdiplostemonous (a.) Having twice as many stamens as petals, those of the outer set being opposite the petals; -- said of flowers.

Obdiplostemony (n.) The condition of being obdiplostemonous.

Obdormition (n.) Sleep.

Obduce (v. t.) To draw over, as a covering.

Obduct (v. t.) To draw over; to cover.

Obduction (n.) The act of drawing or laying over, as a covering.

Obduracy (n.) The duality or state of being obdurate; invincible hardness of heart; obstinacy.

Obdurate (a.) Hardened in feelings, esp. against moral or mollifying influences; unyielding; hard-hearted; stubbornly wicked.

Obdurate (a.) Hard; harsh; rugged; rough; intractable.

Obdurate (v. t.) To harden.

Obduration (n.) A hardening of the heart; hardness of heart.

Obdure (v. t.) To harden.

Obdure (a.) Alt. of Obdured

Obdured (a.) Obdurate; hard.

Obdureness (n.) Alt. of Obduredness

Obduredness (n.) Hardness.

Obbe (n.) See Obi.

Obeah (n.) Same as Obi.

Obeah (a.) Of or pertaining to obi; as, the obeah man.

Obedible (a.) Obedient.

Obedience (n.) The act of obeying, or the state of being obedient; compliance with that which is required by authority; subjection to rightful restraint or control.

Obedience (n.) Words or actions denoting submission to authority; dutifulness.

Obedience (n.) A following; a body of adherents; as, the Roman Catholic obedience, or the whole body of persons who submit to the authority of the pope.

Obedience (n.) A cell (or offshoot of a larger monastery) governed by a prior.

Obedience (n.) One of the three monastic vows.

Obedience (n.) The written precept of a superior in a religious order or congregation to a subject.

Obedienciary (n.) One yielding obedience.

Obedient (a.) Subject in will or act to authority; willing to obey; submissive to restraint, control, or command.

Obediential (a.) According to the rule of obedience.

Obediently (adv.) In an obedient manner; with obedience.

Obeisance (n.) Obedience.

Obeisance (n.) A manifestation of obedience; an expression of difference or respect; homage; a bow; a courtesy.

Obeisancy (n.) See Obeisance.

Obeisant (a.) Ready to obey; reverent; differential; also, servilely submissive.

Obelion (n.) The region of the skull between the two parietal foramina where the closure of the sagittal suture usually begins.

Obeliscal (a.) Formed like an obelisk.

Obelisk (n.) An upright, four-sided pillar, gradually tapering as it rises, and terminating in a pyramid called pyramidion. It is ordinarily monolithic. Egyptian obelisks are commonly covered with hieroglyphic writing from top to bottom.

Obelisk (n.) A mark of reference; -- called also dagger [/]. See Dagger, n., 2.

Obelisked (imp. & p. p.) of Obelisk

Obelisking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obelisk

Obelisk (v. t.) To mark or designate with an obelisk.

Obelized (imp. & p. p.) of Obelize

Obelizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obelize

Obelize (v. t.) To designate with an obelus; to mark as doubtful or spirituous.

Obeli (pl. ) of Obelus

Obelus (n.) A mark [thus /, or Ö ]; -- so called as resembling a needle. In old MSS. or editions of the classics, it marks suspected passages or readings.

Obequitate (v. i.) To ride about.

Oberon (n.) The king of the fairies, and husband of Titania or Queen Mab.

Oberration (n.) A wandering about.

Obese (a.) Excessively corpulent; fat; fleshy.

Obeseness (n.) Quality of being obese; obesity.

Obesity (n.) The state or quality of being obese; incumbrance of flesh.

Obeyed (imp. & p. p.) of Obey

Obeying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obey

Obey (v. t.) To give ear to; to execute the commands of; to yield submission to; to comply with the orders of.

Obey (v. t.) To submit to the authority of; to be ruled by.

Obey (v. t.) To yield to the impulse, power, or operation of; as, a ship obeys her helm.

Obey (v. i.) To give obedience.

Obeyer (n.) One who yields obedience.

Obeyingly (adv.) Obediently; submissively.

Obfirm (v. t.) Alt. of Obfirmate

Obfirmate (v. t.) To make firm; to harden in resolution.

Obfirmation (n.) Hardness of heart; obduracy.

Obfuscate (a.) Obfuscated; darkened; obscured.

Obfuscated (imp. & p. p.) of Obfuscate

Obfuscating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obfuscate

Obfuscate (v. t.) To darken; to obscure; to becloud; hence, to confuse; to bewilder.

Obfuscation (n.) The act of darkening or bewildering; the state of being darkened.

Obi (n.) A species of sorcery, probably of African origin, practiced among the negroes of the West Indies.

Obi (n.) A charm or fetich.

Obimbricate (a.) Imbricated, with the overlapping ends directed downward.

Obit (n.) Death; decease; the date of one's death.

Obit (n.) A funeral solemnity or office; obsequies.

Obit (n.) A service for the soul of a deceased person on the anniversary of the day of his death.

Obiter (adv.) In passing; incidentally; by the way.

Obitual (a.) Of or pertaining to obits, or days when obits are celebrated; as, obitual days.

Obituarily (adv.) In the manner of an obituary.

Obiyuary (a.) Of or pertaining to the death of a person or persons; as, an obituary notice; obituary poetry.

Obituaries (pl. ) of Obituary

Obituary (n.) That which pertains to, or is called forth by, the obit or death of a person; esp., an account of a deceased person; a notice of the death of a person, accompanied by a biographical sketch.

Obituary (n.) A list of the dead, or a register of anniversary days when service is performed for the dead.

Objected (imp. & p. p.) of Object

Objecting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Object

Object (v. t.) To set before or against; to bring into opposition; to oppose.

Object (v. t.) To offer in opposition as a criminal charge or by way of accusation or reproach; to adduce as an objection or adverse reason.

Object (v. i.) To make opposition in words or argument; -- usually followed by to.

Object (v. t.) That which is put, or which may be regarded as put, in the way of some of the senses; something visible or tangible; as, he observed an object in the distance; all the objects in sight; he touched a strange object in the dark.

Object (v. t.) That which is set, or which may be regarded as set, before the mind so as to be apprehended or known; that of which the mind by any of its activities takes cognizance, whether a thing external in space or a conception formed by the mind itself; as, an object of knowledge, wonder, fear, thought, study, etc.

Object (v. t.) That by which the mind, or any of its activities, is directed; that on which the purpose are fixed as the end of action or effort; that which is sought for; end; aim; motive; final cause.

Object (v. t.) Sight; show; appearance; aspect.

Object (v. t.) A word, phrase, or clause toward which an action is directed, or is considered to be directed; as, the object of a transitive verb.

Object (a.) Opposed; presented in opposition; also, exposed.

Objectable (a.) Such as can be presented in opposition; that may be put forward as an objection.

Objectify (v. t.) To cause to become an object; to cause to assume the character of an object; to render objective.

Objection (n.) The act of objecting; as, to prevent agreement, or action, by objection.

Objection (n.) That which is, or may be, presented in opposition; an adverse reason or argument; a reason for objecting; obstacle; impediment; as, I have no objection to going; unreasonable objections.

Objection (n.) Cause of trouble; sorrow.

Objectionable (a.) Liable to objection; likely to be objected to or disapproved of; offensive; as, objectionable words.

Objectist (n.) One who adheres to, or is skilled in, the objective philosophy.

Objectivate (v. t.) To objectify.

Objectivation (n.) Converting into an object.

Objective (a.) Of or pertaining to an object.

Objective (a.) Of or pertaining to an object; contained in, or having the nature or position of, an object; outward; external; extrinsic; -- an epithet applied to whatever ir exterior to the mind, or which is simply an object of thought or feeling, and opposed to subjective.

Objective (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, the case which follows a transitive verb or a preposition, being that case in which the direct object of the verb is placed. See Accusative, n.

Objective (n.) The objective case.

Objective (n.) An object glass. See under Object, n.

Objective (n.) Same as Objective point, under Objective, a.

Objectively (adv.) In the manner or state of an object; as, a determinate idea objectively in the mind.

Objectiveness (n.) Objectivity.

Objectivity (n.) The state, quality, or relation of being objective; character of the object or of the objective.

Obectize (v. t.) To make an object of; to regard as an object; to place in the position of an object.

Objectless (a.) Having no object; purposeless.

Objector (n.) One who objects; one who offers objections to a proposition or measure.

Objibways (n.pl.) See Chippeways.

Objicient (n.) One who makes objection; an objector.

Objuration (n.) A binding by oath.

Objurgated (imp. & p. p.) of Objurgate

Objurgating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Objurgate

Objurgate (v. t.) To chide; to reprove.

Objurgation (n.) The act of objurgating; reproof.

Objurgatory (a.) Designed to objurgate or chide; containing or expressing reproof; culpatory.

Oblanceolate (a.) Lanceolate in the reversed order, that is, narrowing toward the point of attachment more than toward the apex.

Oblate (a.) Flattened or depressed at the poles; as, the earth is an oblate spheroid.

Oblate (a.) Offered up; devoted; consecrated; dedicated; -- used chiefly or only in the titles of Roman Catholic orders. See Oblate, n.

Oblate (a.) One of an association of priests or religious women who have offered themselves to the service of the church. There are three such associations of priests, and one of women, called oblates.

Oblate (a.) One of the Oblati.

Oblateness (n.) The quality or state of being oblate.

Oblati (n. pl.) Children dedicated in their early years to the monastic state.

Oblati (n. pl.) A class of persons, especially in the Middle Ages, who offered themselves and their property to a monastery.

Oblation (n.) The act of offering, or of making an offering.

Oblation (n.) Anything offered or presented in worship or sacred service; an offering; a sacrifice.

Oblation (n.) A gift or contribution made to a church, as for the expenses of the eucharist, or for the support of the clergy and the poor.

Oblationer (n.) One who makes an offering as an act worship or reverence.

Oblatrate (v. i.) To bark or snarl, as a dog.

Oblatration (n.) The act of oblatrating; a barking or snarling.

Oblata (pl. ) of Oblatum

Oblatum (n.) An oblate spheroid; a figure described by the revolution of an ellipse about its minor axis. Cf. Oblongum.

Oblectate (v. t.) To delight; to please greatly.

Oblectation (n.) The act of pleasing highly; the state of being greatly pleased; delight.

Obligable (a.) Acknowledging, or complying with, obligation; trustworthy.

Obligated (imp. & p. p.) of Obligate

Obligating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obligate

Obligate (v. t.) To bring or place under obligation, moral or legal; to hold by a constraining motive.

Obligate (v. t.) To bind or firmly hold to an act; to compel; to constrain; to bind to any act of duty or courtesy by a formal pledge.

Obligation (n.) The act of obligating.

Obligation (n.) That which obligates or constrains; the binding power of a promise, contract, oath, or vow, or of law; that which constitutes legal or moral duty.

Obligation (n.) Any act by which a person becomes bound to do something to or for anouther, or to forbear something; external duties imposed by law, promise, or contract, by the relations of society, or by courtesy, kindness, etc.

Obligation (n.) The state of being obligated or bound; the state of being indebted for an act of favor or kindness; as, to place others under obligations to one.

Obligation (n.) A bond with a condition annexed, and a penalty for nonfulfillment. In a larger sense, it is an acknowledgment of a duty to pay a certain sum or do a certain things.

Obligato (a.) See Obbligato.

Obligatorily (adv.) In an obligatory manner; by reason of obligation.

Obligatoriness (n.) The quality or state of being obligatory.

Obligatory (a.) Binding in law or conscience; imposing duty or obligation; requiring performance or forbearance of some act; -- often followed by on or upon; as, obedience is obligatory on a soldier.

Obliged (imp. & p. p.) of Oblige

Obliging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oblige

Oblige (v. t.) To attach, as by a bond.

Oblige (v. t.) To constrain by physical, moral, or legal force; to put under obligation to do or forbear something.

Oblige (v. t.) To bind by some favor rendered; to place under a debt; hence, to do a favor to; to please; to gratify; to accommodate.

Obligee (n.) The person to whom another is bound, or the person to whom a bond is given.

Obligement (n.) Obligation.

Obliger (n.) One who, or that which, obliges.

Obliging (a.) Putting under obligation; disposed to oblige or do favors; hence, helpful; civil; kind.

Obligor (n.) The person who binds himself, or gives his bond to another.

Obliquation (n.) The act of becoming oblique; a turning to one side; obliquity; as, the obliquation of the eyes.

Obliquation (n.) Deviation from moral rectitude.

Oblique (a.) Not erect or perpendicular; neither parallel to, nor at right angles from, the base; slanting; inclined.

Oblique (a.) Not straightforward; indirect; obscure; hence, disingenuous; underhand; perverse; sinister.

Oblique (a.) Not direct in descent; not following the line of father and son; collateral.

Oblique (n.) An oblique line.

Obliqued (imp. & p. p.) of Oblique

Obliquing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Oblique

Oblique (v. i.) To deviate from a perpendicular line; to move in an oblique direction.

Oblique (v. i.) To march in a direction oblique to the line of the column or platoon; -- formerly accomplished by oblique steps, now by direct steps, the men half-facing either to the right or left.

Oblique-angled (a.) Having oblique angles; as, an oblique-angled triangle.

Obliquely (adv.) In an oblique manner; not directly; indirectly.

Obliqueness (n.) Quality or state of being oblique.

Obliquities (pl. ) of Obliquity

Obliquity (n.) The condition of being oblique; deviation from a right line; deviation from parallelism or perpendicularity; the amount of such deviation; divergence; as, the obliquity of the ecliptic to the equator.

Obliquity (n.) Deviation from ordinary rules; irregularity; deviation from moral rectitude.

Oblite (a.) Indistinct; slurred over.

Obliterated (imp. & p. p.) of Obliterate

Obliterating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obliterate

Obliterate (v. t.) To erase or blot out; to efface; to render undecipherable, as a writing.

Obliterate (v. t.) To wear out; to remove or destroy utterly by any means; to render imperceptible; as. to obliterate ideas; to obliterate the monuments of antiquity.

Obliterate (a.) Scarcely distinct; -- applied to the markings of insects.

Obliteration (n.) The act of obliterating, or the state of being obliterated; extinction.

Obliterative (a.) Tending or serving to obliterate.

Oblivion (n.) The act of forgetting, or the state of being forgotten; cessation of remembrance; forgetfulness.

Oblivion (n.) Official ignoring of offenses; amnesty, or general pardon; as, an act of oblivion.

Oblivious (a.) Promoting oblivion; causing forgetfulness.

Oblivious (a.) Evincing oblivion; forgetful.

Oblocutor (n.) A disputer; a gainsayer.

Oblong (a.) Having greater length than breadth, esp. when rectangular.

Oblong (n.) A rectangular figure longer than it is broad; hence, any figure longer than it is broad.

Oblongata (n.) The medulla oblongata.

Oblongatal (a.) Of or pertaining to the medulla oblongata; medullar.

Oblongish (a.) Somewhat oblong.

Oblongly (adv.) In an oblong form.

Oblongness (n.) State or quality of being oblong.

Oblong-ovate (a.) Between oblong and ovate, but inclined to the latter.

Oblonga (pl. ) of Oblongum

Oblongum (n.) A prolate spheroid; a figure described by the revolution of an ellipse about its greater axis. Cf. Oblatum, and see Ellipsoid of revolution, under Ellipsoid.

Obloquious (a.) Containing obloquy; reproachful

Obloquy (n.) Censorious speech; defamatory language; language that casts contempt on men or their actions; blame; reprehension.

Obloquy (n.) Cause of reproach; disgrace.

Obluctation (n.) A struggle against; resistance; opposition.

Obmutescence (n.) A becoming dumb; loss of speech.

Obmutescence (n.) A keeping silent or mute.

Obnoxious (a.) Subject; liable; exposed; answerable; amenable; -- with to.

Obnoxious (a.) Liable to censure; exposed to punishment; reprehensible; blameworthy.

Obnoxious (a.) Offensive; odious; hateful; as, an obnoxious statesman; a minister obnoxious to the Whigs.

Obnubilate (v. t.) To cloud; to obscure.

Oboe (n.) One of the higher wind instruments in the modern orchestra, yet of great antiquity, having a penetrating pastoral quality of tone, somewhat like the clarinet in form, but more slender, and sounded by means of a double reed; a hautboy.

Oboist (n.) A performer on the oboe.

Obolary (a.) Possessing only small coins; impoverished.

Obole (n.) A weight of twelve grains; or, according to some, of ten grains, or half a scruple.

Obolize (v. t.) See Obelize.

Obolo (n.) A copper coin, used in the Ionian Islands, about one cent in value.

Oboli (pl. ) of Obolus

Obolus (n.) A small silver coin of Athens, the sixth part of a drachma, about three cents in value.

Obolus (n.) An ancient weight, the sixth part of a drachm.

Obomegoid (a.) Obversely omegoid.

Oboval (a.) Obovate.

Obovate (a.) Inversely ovate; ovate with the narrow end downward; as, an obovate leaf.

Obreption (n.) The act of creeping upon with secrecy or by surprise.

Obreption (n.) The obtaining gifts of escheat by fraud or surprise.

Obreptitious (a.) Done or obtained by surprise; with secrecy, or by concealment of the truth.

Obrogate (v. t.) To annul indirectly by enacting a new and contrary law, instead of by expressly abrogating or repealing the old one.

Obrok (n.) A rent.

Obrok (n.) A poll tax paid by peasants absent from their lord's estate.

Obscene (a/) Offensive to chastity or modesty; expressing of presenting to the mind or view something which delicacy, purity, and decency forbid to be exposed; impure; as, obscene language; obscene pictures.

Obscene (a/) Foul; fifthy; disgusting.

Obscene (a/) Inauspicious; ill-omened.

Obscenities (pl. ) of Obscenity

Obscenity (n.) That quality in words or things which presents what is offensive to chasity or purity of mind; obscene or impure lanquage or acts; moral impurity; lewdness; obsceneness; as, the obscenity of a speech, or a picture.

Obscurant (n.) One who obscures; one who prevents enlightenment or hinders the progress of knowledge and wisdom.

Obscurantism (n.) The system or the principles of the obscurants.

Obscurantist (n.) Same as Obscurant.

Obscuration (v. t.) The act or operation of obscuring; the state of being obscured; as, the obscuration of the moon in an eclipse.

Obscure (superl.) Covered over, shaded, or darkened; destitute of light; imperfectly illuminated; dusky; dim.

Obscure (superl.) Of or pertaining to darkness or night; inconspicuous to the sight; indistinctly seen; hidden; retired; remote from observation; unnoticed.

Obscure (superl.) Not noticeable; humble; mean.

Obscure (superl.) Not easily understood; not clear or legible; abstruse or blind; as, an obscure passage or inscription.

Obscure (superl.) Not clear, full, or distinct; clouded; imperfect; as, an obscure view of remote objects.

Obscured (imp. & p. p.) of Obscure

Obscuring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obscure

Obscure (a.) To render obscure; to darken; to make dim; to keep in the dark; to hide; to make less visible, intelligible, legible, glorious, beautiful, or illustrious.

Obscure (v. i.) To conceal one's self; to hide; to keep dark.

Obscure (n.) Obscurity.

Obscurely (adv.) In an obscure manner.

Obscurement (n.) The act of obscuring, or the state of being obscured; obscuration.

Obscureness (n.) Obscurity.

Obscurer (n.) One who, or that which, obscures.

Obscurity (n.) The quality or state of being obscure; darkness; privacy; inconspicuousness; unintelligibleness; uncertainty.

Obsecrated (imp. & p. p.) of Obsecrate

Obsecrating (p. pr. & vb, n.) of Obsecrate

Obsecrate (v. t.) To beseech; to supplicate; to implore.

Obsecration (n.) The act of obsecrating or imploring; as, the obsecrations of the Litany, being those clauses beginning with "By."

Obsecration (n.) A figure of speech in which the orator implores the assistance of God or man.

Obsecratory (a.) Expressing, or used in, entreaty; supplicatory.

Obsequent (a.) Obedient; submissive; obsequious.

Obsequience (n.) Obsequiousness.

Obsequies (n.pl.) See Obsequy.

Obsequious (a.) Promptly obedient, or submissive, to the will of another; compliant; yielding to the desires of another; devoted.

Obsequious (a.) Servilely or meanly attentive; compliant to excess; cringing; fawning; as, obsequious flatterer, parasite.

Obsequious (a.) Of or pertaining to obsequies; funereal.

Obsequiously (adv.) In an obsequious manner; compliantly; fawningly.

Obsequiously (adv.) In a manner appropriate to obsequies.

Obsequiousness (n.) The quality or state of being obsequious.

Obsequies (pl. ) of Obsequy

Obsequy (n.) The last duty or service to a person, rendered after his death; hence, a rite or ceremony pertaining to burial; -- now used only in the plural.

Obsequy (n.) Obsequiousness.

Observable (a.) Worthy or capable of being observed; discernible; noticeable; remarkable.

Observance (n.) The act or practice of observing or noticing with attention; a heeding or keeping with care; performance; -- usually with a sense of strictness and fidelity; as, the observance of the Sabbath is general; the strict observance of duties.

Observance (n.) An act, ceremony, or rite, as of worship or respect; especially, a customary act or service of attention; a form; a practice; a rite; a custom.

Observance (n.) Servile attention; sycophancy.

Observancy (n.) Observance.

Observanda (pl. ) of Observandum

Observandum (n.) A thing to be observed.

Observant (a.) Taking notice; viewing or noticing attentively; watchful; attentive; as, an observant spectator; observant habits.

Observant (a.) Submissively attentive; obediently watchful; regardful; mindful; obedient (to); -- with of, as, to be observant of rules.

Observant (n.) One who observes forms and rules.

Observant (n.) A sycophantic servant.

Observant (n.) An Observantine.

Observantine (n.) One of a branch of the Order of Franciscans, who profess to adhere more strictly than the Conventuals to the intention of the founder, especially as to poverty; -- called also Observants.

Observantly (adv.) In an observant manner.

Observation (n.) The act or the faculty of observing or taking notice; the act of seeing, or of fixing the mind upon, anything.

Observation (n.) The result of an act, or of acts, of observing; view; reflection; conclusion; judgment.

Observation (n.) Hence: An expression of an opinion or judgment upon what one has observed; a remark.

Observation (n.) Performance of what is prescribed; adherence in practice; observance.

Observation (n.) The act of recognizing and noting some fact or occurrence in nature, as an aurora, a corona, or the structure of an animal.

Observation (n.) Specifically, the act of measuring, with suitable instruments, some magnitude, as the time of an occultation, with a clock; the right ascension of a star, with a transit instrument and clock; the sun's altitude, or the distance of the moon from a star, with a sextant; the temperature, with a thermometer, etc.

Observation (n.) The information so acquired.

Observational (a.) Of a pertaining to observation; consisting of, or containing, observations.

Observative (a.) Observing; watchful.

Observator (n.) One who observes or takes notice.

Observator (n.) One who makes a remark.

Observatories (pl. ) of Observatory

Observatory (n.) A place or building for making observations on the heavenly bodies.

Observatory (n.) A building fitted with instruments for making systematic observations of any particular class or series of natural phenomena.

Observatory (n.) A place, as an elevated chamber, from which a view may be observed or commanded.

Observatory (n.) A lookout on a flank of a battery whence an officer can note the range and effect of the fire.

Observed (imp. & p. p.) of Observe

Observing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Observe

Observe (v. t.) To take notice of by appropriate conduct; to conform one's action or practice to; to keep; to heed; to obey; to comply with; as, to observe rules or commands; to observe civility.

Observe (v. t.) To be on the watch respecting; to pay attention to; to notice with care; to see; to perceive; to discover; as, to observe an eclipse; to observe the color or fashion of a dress; to observe the movements of an army.

Observe (v. t.) To express as what has been noticed; to utter as a remark; to say in a casual or incidental way; to remark.

Observe (v. i.) To take notice; to give attention to what one sees or hears; to attend.

Observe (v. i.) To make a remark; to comment; -- generally with on or upon.

Observer (n.) One who observes, or pays attention to, anything; especially, one engaged in, or trained to habits of, close and exact observation; as, an astronomical observer.

Observer (n.) One who keeps any law, custom, regulation, rite, etc.; one who conforms to anything in practice.

Observer (n.) One who fulfills or performs; as, an observer of his promises.

Observer (n.) A sycophantic follower.

Observership (n.) The office or work of an observer.

Observing (a.) Giving particular attention; habitually attentive to what passes; as, an observing person; an observing mind.

Obsess (v. t.) To besiege; to beset.

Obsession (n.) The act of besieging.

Obsession (n.) The state of being besieged; -- used specifically of a person beset by a spirit from without.

Obsidian (n.) A kind of glass produced by volcanoes. It is usually of a black color, and opaque, except in thin splinters.

Obsidional (a.) Of or pertaining to a siege.

Obsigillation (n.) A sealing up.

Obsign (v. t.) To seal; to confirm, as by a seal or stamp.

Obsignate (v. t.) To seal; to ratify.

Obsignation (n.) The act of sealing or ratifying; the state of being sealed or confirmed; confirmation, as by the Holy Spirit.

Obsignatory (a.) Ratifying; confirming by sealing.

Obsolesce (v. i.) To become obsolescent.

Obsolescence (n.) The state of becoming obsolete.

Obsolescent (a.) Going out of use; becoming obsolete; passing into desuetude.

Obsolete (a.) No longer in use; gone into disuse; disused; neglected; as, an obsolete word; an obsolete statute; -- applied chiefly to words, writings, or observances.

Obsolete (a.) Not very distinct; obscure; rudimental; imperfectly developed; abortive.

Obsolete (v. i.) To become obsolete; to go out of use.

Obsoletely (adv.) In an obsolete manner.

Obsoleteness (n.) The state of being obsolete, or no longer used; a state of desuetude.

Obsoleteness (n.) Indistinctness; want of development.

Obsoletism (n.) A disused word or phrase; an archaism.

Obstacle (v.) That which stands in the way, or opposes; anything that hinders progress; a hindrance; an obstruction, physical or moral.

Obstancy (n.) Opposition; impediment; obstruction.

Obstetric (a.) Alt. of Obstetrical

Obstetrical (a.) Of or pertaining to midwifery, or the delivery of women in childbed; as, the obstetric art.

Obstetricate (v. i.) To perform the office of midwife.

Obstetricate (v. t.) To assist as a midwife.

Obstetrication (n.) The act of assisting as a midwife; delivery.

Obstetrician (n.) One skilled in obstetrics; an accoucheur.

Obstetricious (a.) Serving to assist childbirth; obstetric; hence, facilitating any bringing forth or deliverance.

Obstetrics (n.) The science of midwifery; the art of assisting women in parturition, or in the trouble incident to childbirth.

Obstetricy (n.) Obstetrics.

Obstinacy (n.) A fixedness in will, opinion, or resolution that can not be shaken at all, or only with great difficulty; firm and usually unreasonable adherence to an opinion, purpose, or system; unyielding disposition; stubborness; pertinacity; persistency; contumacy.

Obstinacy (n.) The quality or state of being difficult to remedy, relieve, or subdue; as, the obstinacy of a disease or evil.

Obstinate (a.) Pertinaciously adhering to an opinion, purpose, or course; persistent; not yielding to reason, arguments, or other means; stubborn; pertinacious; -- usually implying unreasonableness.

Obstinate (a.) Not yielding; not easily subdued or removed; as, obstinate fever; obstinate obstructions.

Obstination (n.) Obstinacy; stubbornness.

Obstipation (n.) The act of stopping up, as a passage.

Obstipation (n.) Extreme constipation.

Obstreperous (a.) Attended by, or making, a loud and tumultuous noise; clamorous; noisy; vociferous.

Obstriction (n.) The state of being constrained, bound, or obliged; that which constrains or obliges; obligation; bond.

Obstringe (v. t.) To constrain; to put under obligation.

Obstructed (imp. & p. p.) of Obstruct

Obstructing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obstruct

Obstruct (v. t.) To block up; to stop up or close, as a way or passage; to place an obstacle in, or fill with obstacles or impediments that prevent or hinder passing; as, to obstruct a street; to obstruct the channels of the body.

Obstruct (v. t.) To be, or come, in the way of; to hinder from passing; to stop; to impede; to retard; as, the bar in the harbor obstructs the passage of ships; clouds obstruct the light of the sun; unwise rules obstruct legislation.

Obstructer (n.) One who obstructs or hinders.

Obstruction (n.) The act of obstructing, or state of being obstructed.

Obstruction (n.) That which obstructs or impedes; an obstacle; an impediment; a hindrance.

Obstruction (n.) The condition of having the natural powers obstructed in their usual course; the arrest of the vital functions; death.

Obstructionism (n.) The act or the policy of obstructing progress.

Obstructionist (n.) One who hinders progress; one who obstructs business, as in a legislative body.

Obstructionist (a.) Of or pertaining to obstructionists.

Obstructive (a.) Tending to obstruct; presenting obstacles; hindering; causing impediment.

Obstructive (n.) An obstructive person or thing.

Obstruent (a.) Causing obstruction; blocking up; hindering; as, an obstruent medicine.

Obstruent (n.) Anything that obstructs or closes a passage; esp., that which obstructs natural passages in the body; as, a medicine which acts as an obstruent.

Obstupefaction (n.) See Stupefaction.

Obstupefactive (a.) Stupefactive.

Obstupefy (v. t.) See Stupefy.

Obtained (imp. & p. p.) of Obtain

Obtaining (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obtain

Obtain (v. t.) To hold; to keep; to possess.

Obtain (v. t.) To get hold of by effort; to gain possession of; to procure; to acquire, in any way.

Obtain (v. i.) To become held; to gain or have a firm footing; to be recognized or established; to subsist; to become prevalent or general; to prevail; as, the custom obtains of going to the seashore in summer.

Obtain (v. i.) To prevail; to succeed.

Obtainable (a.) Capable of being obtained.

Obtainer (n.) One who obtains.

Obtainment (n.) The act or process of obtaining; attainment.

Obtected (a.) Covered; protected.

Obtected (a.) Covered with a hard chitinous case, as the pupa of certain files.

Obtemper (v. t. & i.) To obey (a judgment or decree).

Obtemperate (v. t.) To obey.

Obtended (imp. & p. p.) of Obtend

Obtending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obtend

Obtend (v. t.) To oppose; to hold out in opposition.

Obtend (v. t.) To offer as the reason of anything; to pretend.

Obtenebration (n.) The act of darkening; the state of being darkened; darkness.

Obtension (n.) The act of obtending.

Obtested (imp. & p. p.) of Obtest

Obtesting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obtest

Obtest (v. t.) To call to witness; to invoke as a witness.

Obtest (v. t.) To beseech; to supplicate; to beg for.

Obtest (v. i.) To protest.

Obtestation (n.) The act of obtesting; supplication; protestation.

Obtrectation (n.) Slander; detraction; calumny.

Obtruded (imp. & p. p.) of Obtrude

Obtruding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obtrude

Obtrude (v. t.) To thrust impertinently; to present without warrant or solicitation; as, to obtrude one's self upon a company.

Obtrude (v. t.) To offer with unreasonable importunity; to urge unduly or against the will.

Obtrude (v. i.) To thrust one's self upon a company or upon attention; to intrude.

Obtruder (n.) One who obtrudes.

Obtruncate (v. t.) To deprive of a limb; to lop.

Obtruncation (n.) The act of lopping or cutting off.

Obtrusion (n.) The act of obtruding; a thrusting upon others by force or unsolicited; as, the obtrusion of crude opinions on the world.

Obtrusion (n.) That which is obtruded.

Obtrusionist (n.) One who practices or excuses obtrusion.

Obtrusive (a.) Disposed to obtrude; inclined to intrude or thrust one's self or one's opinions upon others, or to enter uninvited; forward; pushing; intrusive.

Obtunded (imp. & p. p.) of Obtund

Obtunding (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obtund

Obtund (v. t.) To reduce the edge, pungency, or violent action of; to dull; to blunt; to deaden; to quell; as, to obtund the acrimony of the gall.

Obtundent (n.) A substance which sheathes a part, or blunts irritation, usually some bland, oily, or mucilaginous matter; -- nearly the same as demulcent.

Obtunder (n.) That which obtunds or blunts; especially, that which blunts sensibility.

Obturation (n.) The act of stopping up, or closing, an opening.

Obturator (n.) That which closes or stops an opening.

Obturator (n.) An apparatus designed to close an unnatural opening, as a fissure of the palate.

Obturator (a.) Serving as an obturator; closing an opening; pertaining to, or in the region of, the obturator foramen; as, the obturator nerve.

Obtusangular (a.) See Obstuseangular.

Obtuse (superl.) Not pointed or acute; blunt; -- applied esp. to angles greater than a right angle, or containing more than ninety degrees.

Obtuse (superl.) Not having acute sensibility or perceptions; dull; stupid; as, obtuse senses.

Obtuse (superl.) Dull; deadened; as, obtuse sound.

Obtuse-angled (a.) Alt. of obtuse-angular

obtuse-angular (a.) Having an obtuse angle; as, an obtuse-angled triangle.

Obtusely (adv.) In an obtuse manner.

Obtuseness (n.) State or quality of being obtuse.

Obtusion (n.) The act or process of making obtuse or blunt.

Obtusion (n.) The state of being dulled or blunted; as, the obtusion of the senses.

Obtusity (n.) Obtuseness.

Obumbrant (a.) Overhanging; as, obumbrant feathers.

Obumbrate (v. t.) To shade; to darken; to cloud.

Obumbration (n.) Act of darkening or obscuring.

Obuncous (a.) Hooked or crooked in an extreme degree.

Obvention (n.) The act of happening incidentally; that which happens casually; an incidental advantage; an occasional offering.

Obversant (a.) Conversant; familiar.

Obverse (a.) Having the base, or end next the attachment, narrower than the top, as a leaf.

Obverse (a.) The face of a coin which has the principal image or inscription upon it; -- the other side being the reverse.

Obverse (a.) Anything necessarily involved in, or answering to, another; the more apparent or conspicuous of two possible sides, or of two corresponding things.

Obversely (adv.) In an obverse manner.

Obversion (n.) The act of turning toward or downward.

Obversion (n.) The act of immediate inference, by which we deny the opposite of anything which has been affirmed; as, all men are mortal; then, by obversion, no men are immortal. This is also described as "immediate inference by privative conception."

Obverted (imp. & p. p.) of Obvert

Obverting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obvert

Obvert (v. t.) To turn toward.

Obviated (imp. & p. p.) of Obviate

Obviating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Obviate

Obviate (v. t.) To meet in the way.

Obviate (v. t.) To anticipate; to prevent by interception; to remove from the way or path; to make unnecessary; as, to obviate the necessity of going.

Obviation (n.) The act of obviating, or the state of being obviated.

Obvious (a.) Opposing; fronting.

Obvious (a.) Exposed; subject; open; liable.

Obvious (a.) Easily discovered, seen, or understood; readily perceived by the eye or the intellect; plain; evident; apparent; as, an obvious meaning; an obvious remark.

Obvolute (a.) Alt. of Obvoluted

Obvoluted (a.) Overlapping; contorted; convolute; -- applied primarily, in botany, to two opposite leaves, each of which has one edge overlapping the nearest edge of the other, and secondarily to a circle of several leaves or petals which thus overlap.

Oby (n.) See Obi.

Oca (n.) A Peruvian name for certain species of Oxalis (O. crenata, and O. tuberosa) which bear edible tubers.

Occamy (n.) An alloy imitating gold or silver.

Occasion (n.) A falling out, happening, or coming to pass; hence, that which falls out or happens; occurrence; incident.

Occasion (n.) A favorable opportunity; a convenient or timely chance; convenience.

Occasion (n.) An occurrence or condition of affairs which brings with it some unlooked-for event; that which incidentally brings to pass an event, without being its efficient cause or sufficient reason; accidental or incidental cause.

Occasion (n.) Need; exigency; requirement; necessity; as, I have no occasion for firearms.

Occasion (n.) A reason or excuse; a motive; a persuasion.

Occasioned (imp. & p. p.) of Occasion

Occasioning (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Occasion

Occasion (v. t.) To give occasion to; to cause; to produce; to induce; as, to occasion anxiety.

Occasionable (a.) Capable of being occasioned or caused.

Occasional (a.) Of or pertaining to an occasion or to occasions; occuring at times, but not constant, regular, or systematic; made or happening as opportunity requires or admits; casual; incidental; as, occasional remarks, or efforts.

Occasional (a.) Produced by accident; as, the occasional origin of a thing.

Occasionalism (n.) The system of occasional causes; -- a name given to certain theories of the Cartesian school of philosophers, as to the intervention of the First Cause, by which they account for the apparent reciprocal action of the soul and the body.

Occasionality (n.) Quality or state of being occasional; occasional occurrence.

Occasionally (adv.) In an occasional manner; on occasion; at times, as convenience requires or opportunity offers; not regularly.

Occasionate (v. t.) To occasion.

Occasioner (n.) One who, or that which, occasions, causes, or produces.

Occasive (a.) Of or pertaining to the setting sun; falling; descending; western.

Occecation (n.) The act of making blind, or the state of being blind.

Occident (n.) The part of the horizon where the sun last appears in the evening; that part of the earth towards the sunset; the west; -- opposed to orient. Specifically, in former times, Europe as opposed to Asia; now, also, the Western hemisphere.

Occidental (a.) Of, pertaining to, or situated in, the occident, or west; western; -- opposed to oriental; as, occidental climates, or customs; an occidental planet.

Occidental (a.) Possessing inferior hardness, brilliancy, or beauty; -- used of inferior precious stones and gems, because those found in the Orient are generally superior.

Occidentals (n.pl.) Western Christians of the Latin rite. See Orientals.

Occiduous (a.) Western; occidental.

Occipital (a.) Of or pertaining to the occiput, or back part of the head, or to the occipital bone.

Occipital (n.) The occipital bone.

Occipito- () A combining form denoting relation to, or situation near, the occiput; as, occipito-axial; occipito-mastoid.

Occipitoaxial (a.) Of or pertaining to the occipital bone and second vertebra, or axis.

Occipita (pl. ) of Occiput

Occiputs (pl. ) of Occiput

Occiput (n.) The back, or posterior, part of the head or skull; the region of the occipital bone.

Occiput (n.) A plate which forms the back part of the head of insects.

Occision (n.) A killing; the act of killing.

Occlude (v. t.) To shut up; to close.

Occlude (v. t.) To take in and retain; to absorb; -- said especially with respect to gases; as iron, platinum, and palladium occlude large volumes of hydrogen.

Occludent (a.) Serving to close; shutting up.

Occludent (n.) That which closes or shuts up.

Occluse (a.) Shut; closed.

Occlusion (n.) The act of occluding, or the state of being occluded.

Occlusion (n.) The transient approximation of the edges of a natural opening; imperforation.

Occrustate (v. t.) To incrust; to harden.

Occult (a.) Hidden from the eye or the understanding; inviable; secret; concealed; unknown.

Occult (v. t.) To eclipse; to hide from sight.

Occultation (n.) The hiding of a heavenly body from sight by the intervention of some other of the heavenly bodies; -- applied especially to eclipses of stars and planets by the moon, and to the eclipses of satellites of planets by their primaries.

Occultation (n.) Fig.: The state of being occult.

Occulted (a.) Hidden; secret.

Occulted (a.) Concealed by the intervention of some other heavenly body, as a star by the moon.

Occulting (n.) Same as Occultation.

Occultism (n.) A certain Oriental system of theosophy.

Occultist (n.) An adherent of occultism.

Occultly (adv.) In an occult manner.

Occultness (n.) State or quality of being occult.

Occupancy (n.) The act of taking or holding possession; possession; occupation.

Occupant (n.) One who occupies, or takes possession; one who has the actual use or possession, or is in possession, of a thing.

Occupant (n.) A prostitute.

Occupate (v. t.) To occupy.

Occupation (n.) The act or process of occupying or taking possession; actual possession and control; the state of being occupied; a holding or keeping; tenure; use; as, the occupation of lands by a tenant.

Occupation (n.) That which occupies or engages the time and attention; the principal business of one's life; vocation; employment; calling; trade.

Occupier (n.) One who occupies, or has possession.

Occupier (n.) One who follows an employment; hence, a tradesman.

Occupied (imp. & p. p.) of Occupy

Occupying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Occupy

Occupy (v. t.) To take or hold possession of; to hold or keep for use; to possess.

Occupy (v. t.) To hold, or fill, the dimensions of; to take up the room or space of; to cover or fill; as, the camp occupies five acres of ground.

Occupy (v. t.) To possess or use the time or capacity of; to engage the service of; to employ; to busy.

Occupy (v. t.) To do business in; to busy one's self with.

Occupy (v. t.) To use; to expend; to make use of.

Occupy (v. t.) To have sexual intercourse with.

Occupy (v. i.) To hold possession; to be an occupant.

Occupy (v. i.) To follow business; to traffic.

Occurred (imp. & p. p.) of Occur

Occurring (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Occur

Occur (v. i.) To meet; to clash.

Occur (v. i.) To go in order to meet; to make reply.

Occur (v. i.) To meet one's eye; to be found or met with; to present itself; to offer; to appear; to happen; to take place; as, I will write if opportunity occurs.

Occur (v. i.) To meet or come to the mind; to suggest itself; to be presented to the imagination or memory.

Occurrence (n.) A coming or happening; as, the occurence of a railway collision.

Occurrence (n.) Any incident or event; esp., one which happens without being designed or expected; as, an unusual occurrence, or the ordinary occurrences of life.

Occurrent (a.) Occurring or happening; hence, incidental; accidental.

Occurrent (n.) One who meets; hence, an adversary.

Occurrent (n.) Anything that happens; an occurrence.

Occurse (n.) Same as Occursion.

Occursion (n.) A meeting; a clash; a collision.

Ocean (n.) The whole body of salt water which covers more than three fifths of the surface of the globe; -- called also the sea, or great sea.

Ocean (n.) One of the large bodies of water into which the great ocean is regarded as divided, as the Atlantic, Pacific, Indian, Arctic and Antarctic oceans.

Ocean (n.) An immense expanse; any vast space or quantity without apparent limits; as, the boundless ocean of eternity; an ocean of affairs.

Ocean (a.) Of or pertaining to the main or great sea; as, the ocean waves; an ocean stream.

Oceanic (a.) Of or pertaining to the ocean; found or formed in or about, or produced by, the ocean; frequenting the ocean, especially mid-ocean.

Oceanic (a.) Of or pertaining to Oceania or its inhabitants.

Oceanography (n.) A description of the ocean.

Oceanology (n.) That branch of science which relates to the ocean.

Oceanus (n.) The god of the great outer sea, or the river which was believed to flow around the whole earth.

Ocellary (a.) Of or pertaining to ocelli.

Ocellate (a.) Same as Ocellated.

Ocellated (a.) Resembling an eye.

Ocellated (a.) Marked with eyelike spots of color; as, the ocellated blenny.

Ocelli (pl. ) of Ocellus

Ocellus (n.) A little eye; a minute simple eye found in many invertebrates.

Ocellus (n.) An eyelike spot of color, as those on the tail of the peacock.

Oceloid (a.) Resembling the ocelot.

Ocelot (n.) An American feline carnivore (Felis pardalis). It ranges from the Southwestern United States to Patagonia. It is covered with blackish ocellated spots and blotches, which are variously arranged. The ground color varies from reddish gray to tawny yellow.

Ocher (n.) Alt. of Ochre

Ochre (n.) A impure earthy ore of iron or a ferruginous clay, usually red (hematite) or yellow (limonite), -- used as a pigment in making paints, etc. The name is also applied to clays of other colors.

Ochre (n.) A metallic oxide occurring in earthy form; as, tungstic ocher or tungstite.

Ocherous (a.) Alt. of Ochreous

Ochreous (a.) Of or pertaining to ocher; containing or resembling ocher; as, ocherous matter; ocherous soil.

Ochery (a.) Ocherous.

Ochimy (n.) See Occamy.

Ochlesis (n.) A general morbid condition induced by the crowding together of many persons, esp. sick persons, under one roof.

Ochlocracy (n.) A form of government by the multitude; a mobocracy.

Ochlocratic (a.) Alt. of Ochlocratical

Ochlocratical (a.) Of or pertaining to ochlocracy; having the form or character of an ochlocracy; mobocratic.

Ochraceous (a.) Ocherous.

Ochre (n.) See Ocher.

Ochreaee (pl. ) of Ochrea

Ochrea (n.) A greave or legging.

Ochrea (n.) A kind of sheath formed by two stipules united round a stem.

Ochreate (a.) Alt. of Ochreated

Ochreated (a.) Wearing or furnished with an ochrea or legging; wearing boots; booted.

Ochreated (a.) Provided with ochrea, or sheathformed stipules, as the rhubarb, yellow dock, and knotgrass.

Ochreous (a.) See Ocherous.

Ochrey (a.) See Ochery.

Ochroleucous (a.) Yellowish white; having a faint tint of dingy yellow.

Ochry (a.) See Ochery.

Ochymy (n.) See Occamy.

-ock () A suffix used to form diminutives; as, bullock, hillock.

Ocra (n.) See Okra.

Ocrea (n.) See Ochrea.

Ocreate (a.) Alt. of Ocreated

Ocreated (a.) Same as Ochreate, Ochreated.

Octa- () A prefix meaning eight. See Octo-.

Octachord (n.) An instrument of eight strings; a system of eight tones.

Octad (n.) An atom or radical which has a valence of eight, or is octavalent.

Octaedral (a.) See Octahedral.

Octaemeron (n.) A fast of eight days before a great festival.

Octagon (n.) A plane figure of eight sides and eight angles.

Octagon (n.) Any structure (as a fortification) or place with eight sides or angles.

Octagonal (a.) Having eight sides and eight angles.

Octagynous (a.) Having eight pistils or styles; octogynous.

Octahedral (a.) Having eight faces or sides; of, pertaining to, or formed in, octahedrons; as, octahedral cleavage.

Octahedrite (n.) Titanium dioxide occurring in acute octahedral crystals.

Octahedron (n.) A solid bounded by eight faces. The regular octahedron is contained by eight equal equilateral triangles.

Octamerous (a.) Having the parts in eights; as, an octamerous flower; octamerous mesenteries in polyps.

Octameter (n.) A verse containing eight feet; as, --//Deep# in|to# the | dark#ness | peer#ing, | long# I | stood# there | wond'#ring, | fear#ing.

Octander (n.) One of the Octandria.

Octandria (n.pl.) A Linnaean class of plants, in which the flowers have eight stamens not united to one another or to the pistil.

Octandrian (a.) Alt. of Octandrous

Octandrous (a.) Of or pertaining to the Octandria; having eight distinct stamens.

Octane (n.) Any one of a group of metametric hydrocarcons (C8H18) of the methane series. The most important is a colorless, volatile, inflammable liquid, found in petroleum, and a constituent of benzene or ligroin.

Octangular (a.) Having eight angles; eight-angled.

Octant (n.) The eighth part of a circle; an arc of 45 degrees.

Octant (n.) The position or aspect of a heavenly body, as the moon or a planet, when half way between conjunction, or opposition, and quadrature, or distant from another body 45 degrees.

Octant (n.) An instrument for measuring angles (generally called a quadrant), having an arc which measures up to 9O¡, but being itself the eighth part of a circle. Cf. Sextant.

Octant (n.) One of the eight parts into which a space is divided by three coordinate planes.

Octapla (sing.) A portion of the Old Testament prepared by Origen in the 3d century, containing the Hebrew text and seven Greek versions of it, arranged in eight parallel columns.

Octaroon (n.) See Octoroon.

Octastyle (a.) See Octostyle.

Octateuch (n.) A collection of eight books; especially, the first eight books of the Old Testament.

Octavalent (a.) Having a valence of eight; capable of being combined with, exchanged for, or compared with, eight atoms of hydrogen; -- said of certain atoms or radicals.

Octave (n.) The eighth day after a church festival, the festival day being included; also, the week following a church festival.

Octave (n.) The eighth tone in the scale; the interval between one and eight of the scale, or any interval of equal length; an interval of five tones and two semitones.

Octave (n.) The whole diatonic scale itself.

Octave (n.) The first two stanzas of a sonnet, consisting of four verses each; a stanza of eight lines.

Octave (n.) A small cask of wine, the eighth part of a pipe.

Octave (a.) Consisting of eight; eight.

Octavos (pl. ) of Octavo

Octavo (n.) A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eight leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book so made; -- usually written 8vo or 8¡.

Octavo (a.) Having eight leaves to a sheet; as, an octavo form, book, leaf, size, etc.

Octene (n.) Same as Octylene.

Octennial (a.) Happening every eighth year; also, lasting a period of eight years.

Octet (n.) A composition for eight parts, usually for eight solo instruments or voices.

Octic (a.) Of the eighth degree or order.

Octic (n.) A quantic of the eighth degree.

Octile (n.) Same as Octant, 2.

Octillion (n.) According to the French method of numeration (which method is followed also in the United States) the number expressed by a unit with twenty-seven ciphers annexed. According to the English method, the number expressed by a unit with forty-eight ciphers annexed. See Numeration.

Octo- () Alt. of Octa-

Octa- () A combining form meaning eight; as in octodecimal, octodecimal, octolocular.

Octoate (n.) A salt of an octoic acid; a caprylate.

October (n.) The tenth month of the year, containing thirty-one days.

October (n.) Ale or cider made in that month.

Octocera (n.pl.) Octocerata.

Octocerata (n.pl.) A suborder of Cephalopoda including Octopus, Argonauta, and allied genera, having eight arms around the head; -- called also Octopoda.

Octochord (n.) See Octachord.

Octodecimo (a.) Having eighteen leaves to a sheet; as, an octodecimo form, book, leaf, size, etc.

Octodecimos (pl. ) of Octodecimo

Octodecimo (n.) A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eighteen leaves; hence; indicating more or less definitely a size of book, whose sheets are so folded; -- usually written 18mo or 18¡, and called eighteenmo.

Octodentate (a.) Having eight teeth.

Octodont (a.) Of or pertaining to the Octodontidae, a family of rodents which includes the coypu, and many other South American species.

Octoedrical (a.) See Octahedral.

Octofid (a.) Cleft or separated into eight segments, as a calyx.

Octogamy (n.) A marrying eight times.

Octogenarian (n.) A person eighty years, or more, of age.

Octogenary (a.) Of eighty years of age.

Octogild (n.) A pecuniary compensation for an injury, of eight times the value of the thing.

Octogonal (a.) See Octagonal.

Octogynia (n.pl.) A Linnaean order of plants having eight pistils.

Octogynian (a.) Alt. of Octogynous

Octogynous (a.) Having eight pistils; octagynous.

Octoic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, octane; -- used specifically, to designate any one of a group of acids, the most important of which is called caprylic acid.

Octolocular (a.) Having eight cells for seeds.

Octonaphthene (n.) A colorless liquid hydrocarbon of the octylene series, occurring in Caucasian petroleum.

Octonary (a.) Of or pertaining to the number eight.

Octonocular (a.) Having eight eyes.

Octopede (n.) An animal having eight feet, as a spider.

Octopetalous (a.) Having eight petals or flower leaves.

Octopod (n.) One of the Octocerata.

Octopoda (n.pl.) Same as Octocerata.

Octopoda (n.pl.) Same as Arachnida.

Octopodia (n.pl.) Same as Octocerata.

Octopus (n.) A genus of eight-armed cephalopods, including numerous species, some of them of large size. See Devilfish,

Octoradiated (a.) Having eight rays.

Octoroon (n.) The offspring of a quadroon and a white person; a mestee.

Octospermous (a.) Containing eight seeds.

Octostichous (a.) In eight vertical ranks, as leaves on a stem.

Octostyle (a.) Having eight columns in the front; -- said of a temple or portico. The Parthenon is octostyle, but most large Greek temples are hexastele. See Hexastyle.

Octostyle (n.) An octostyle portico or temple.

Octosyllabic (a.) Alt. of Octosyllabical

Octosyllabical (a.) Consisting of or containing eight syllables.

Octosyllable (a.) Octosyllabic.

Octosyllable (n.) A word of eight syllables.

Octoyl (n.) A hypothetical radical (C8H15O), regarded as the essential residue of octoic acid.

Octroi (n.) A privilege granted by the sovereign authority, as the exclusive right of trade granted to a guild or society; a concession.

Octroi (n.) A tax levied in money or kind at the gate of a French city on articles brought within the walls.

Octuor (n.) See Octet.

Octuple (a.) Eightfold.

Octyl (n.) A hypothetical hydrocarbon radical regarded as an essential residue of octane, and as entering into its derivatives; as, octyl alcohol.

Octylene (n.) Any one of a series of metameric hydrocarbons (C8H16) of the ethylene series. In general they are combustible, colorless liquids.

Octylic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, octyl; as, octylic ether.

Ocular (a.) Depending on, or perceived by, the eye; received by actual sight; personally seeing or having seen; as, ocular proof.

Ocular (a.) Of or pertaining to the eye; optic.

Ocular (n.) The eyepiece of an optical instrument, as of a telescope or microscope.

Ocularly (adv.) By the eye, or by actual sight.

Oculary (a.) Of or pertaining to the eye; ocular; optic; as, oculary medicines.

Oculate (a.) Alt. of Oculated

Oculated (a.) Furnished with eyes.

Oculated (a.) Having spots or holes resembling eyes; ocellated.

Oculiform (a.) In the form of an eye; resembling an eye; as, an oculiform pebble.

Oculina (n.) A genus of tropical corals, usually branched, and having a very volid texture.

Oculinacea (n.pl.) A suborder of corals including many reef-building species, having round, starlike calicles.

Oculist (n.) One skilled in treating diseases of the eye.

Oculo- () A combining form from L. oculus the eye.

Oculomotor (a.) Of or pertaining to the movement of the eye; -- applied especially to the common motor nerves (or third pair of cranial nerves) which supply many of the muscles of the orbit.

Oculomotor (n.) The oculomotor nerve.

Oculonasal (a.) Of or pertaining to the region of the eye and the nose; as, the oculonasal, or nasal, nerve, one of the branches of the ophthalmic.

Oculi (pl. ) of Oculus

Oculus (n.) An eye; (Bot.) a leaf bud.

Oculus (n.) A round window, usually a small one.

Ocypodian (n.) One of a tribe of crabs which live in holes in the sand along the seashore, and run very rapidly, -- whence the name.

Od (n.) An alleged force or natural power, supposed, by Reichenbach and others, to produce the phenomena of mesmerism, and to be developed by various agencies, as by magnets, heat, light, chemical or vital action, etc.; -- called also odyle or the odylic force.

Odalisque (n.) A female slave or concubine in the harem of the Turkish sultan.

Odd (superl.) Not paired with another, or remaining over after a pairing; without a mate; unmatched; single; as, an odd shoe; an odd glove.

Odd (superl.) Not divisible by 2 without a remainder; not capable of being evenly paired, one unit with another; as, 1, 3, 7, 9, 11, etc., are odd numbers.

Odd (superl.) Left over after a definite round number has been taken or mentioned; indefinitely, but not greatly, exceeding a specified number; extra.

Odd (superl.) Remaining over; unconnected; detached; fragmentary; hence, occasional; inconsiderable; as, odd jobs; odd minutes; odd trifles.

Odd (superl.) Different from what is usual or common; unusual; singular; peculiar; unique; strange.

Odd Fellow () A member of a secret order, or fraternity, styled the Independent Order of Odd Fellows, established for mutual aid and social enjoyment.

Oddities (pl. ) of Oddity

Oddity (n.) The quality or state of being odd; singularity; queerness; peculiarity; as, oddity of dress, manners, and the like.

Oddity (n.) That which is odd; as, a collection of oddities.

Oddly (adv.) In an odd manner; unevently.

Oddly (adv.) In a peculiar manner; strangely; queerly; curiously.

Oddly (adv.) In a manner measured by an odd number.

Oddness (n.) The state of being odd, or not even.

Oddness (n.) Singularity; strangeness; eccentricity; irregularity; uncouthness; as, the oddness of dress or shape; the oddness of an event.

Odds (a.) Difference in favor of one and against another; excess of one of two things or numbers over the other; inequality; advantage; superiority; hence, excess of chances; probability.

Odds (a.) Quarrel; dispute; debate; strife; -- chiefly in the phrase at odds.

Ode (n.) A short poetical composition proper to be set to music or sung; a lyric poem; esp., now, a poem characterized by sustained noble sentiment and appropriate dignity of style.

Odelet (n.) A little or short ode.

Odeon (n.) A kind of theater in ancient Greece, smaller than the dramatic theater and roofed over, in which poets and musicians submitted their works to the approval of the public, and contended for prizes; -- hence, in modern usage, the name of a hall for musical or dramatic performances.

Odeum (n.) See Odeon.

Odible (a.) Fitted to excite hatred; hateful.

Odic (a.) Of or pertaining to od. See Od.

Odin (n.) The supreme deity of the Scandinavians; -- the same as Woden, of the German tribes.

Odinic (a.) Of or pertaining to Odin.

Odious (a.) Hateful; deserving or receiving hatred; as, an odious name, system, vice.

Odious (a.) Causing or provoking hatred, repugnance, or disgust; offensive; disagreeable; repulsive; as, an odious sight; an odious smell.

Odist (n.) A writer of an ode or odes.

Odium (n.) Hatred; dislike; as, his conduct brought him into odium, or, brought odium upon him.

Odium (n.) The quality that provokes hatred; offensiveness.

Odized (imp. & p. p.) of Odize

Odizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Odize

Odize (v. t.) To charge with od. See Od.

Odmyl (n.) A volatile liquid obtained by boiling sulphur with linseed oil. It has an unpleasant garlic odor.

Odometer (n.) An instrument attached to the wheel of a vehicle, to measure the distance traversed; also, a wheel used by surveyors, which registers the miles and rods traversed.

Odometrical (a.) Of or pertaining to the odometer, or to measurements made with it.

Odometrous (a.) Serving to measure distance on a road.

Odometry (n.) Measurement of distances by the odometer.

Odonata (n. pl.) The division of insects that includes the dragon flies.

Odontalgia (n.) Toothache.

Odontalgic (a.) Of or pertaining to odontalgia.

Odontalgic (n.) A remedy for the toothache.

Odontalgy (n.) Same as Odontalgia.

Odontiasis (n.) Cutting of the teeth; dentition.

Odonto- () A combining form from Gr. 'odoy`s, 'odo`ntos, a tooth.

Odontoblast (n.) One of the more or less columnar cells on the outer surface of the pulp of a tooth; an odontoplast. They are supposed to be connected with the formation of dentine.

Odontoblast (n.) One of the cells which secrete the chitinous teeth of Mollusca.

Odontocete (n.pl.) A subdivision of Cetacea, including the sperm whale, dolphins, etc.; the toothed whales.

Odontogeny (n.) Generetion, or mode of development, of the teeth.

Odontograph (n.) An instrument for marking or laying off the outlines of teeth of gear wheels.

Odontographic (a.) Of or pertaining to odontography.

Odontography (n.) A description of the teeth.

Odontoid (a.) Having the form of a tooth; toothlike.

Odontoid (a.) Of or pertaining to the odontoid bone or to the odontoid process.

Odontolcae (n. pl.) An extinct order of ostrichlike aquatic birds having teeth, which are set in a groove in the jaw. It includes Hesperornis, and allied genera. See Hesperornis.

Odontolite (n.) A fossil tooth colored a bright blue by phosphate of iron. It is used as an imitation of turquoise, and hence called bone turquoise.

Odontology (n.) The science which treats of the teeth, their structure and development.

Odontophora (n.pl.) Same as Cephalophora.

Odontophore (n.) A special structure found in the mouth of most mollusks, except bivalves. It consists of several muscles and a cartilage which supports a chitinous radula, or lingual ribbon, armed with teeth. Also applied to the radula alone. See Radula.

Odontophorous (a.) Having an odontophore.

Odontoplast (n.) An odontoblast.

Odontopteryx (n.) An extinct Eocene bird having the jaws strongly serrated, or dentated, but destitute of true teeth. It was found near London.

Odontornithes (n. pl.) A group of Mesozoic birds having the jaws armed with teeth, as in most other vertebrates. They have been divided into three orders: Odontolcae, Odontotormae, and Saururae.

Odontostomatous (a.) Having toothlike mandibles; -- applied to certain insects.

Odontotormae (n.pl.) An order of extinct toothed birds having the teeth in sockets, as in the genus Ichthyornis. See Ichthyornis.

Odor (n.) Any smell, whether fragrant or offensive; scent; perfume.

Odorament (n.) A perfume; a strong scent.

Odorant (a.) Yielding odors; fragrant.

Odorate (a.) Odorous.

Odorating (a.) Diffusing odor or scent; fragrant.

Odoriferous (a.) Bearing or yielding an odor; perfumed; usually, sweet of scent; fragrant; as, odoriferous spices, particles, fumes, breezes.

Odorline (n.) A pungent oily substance obtained by redistilling bone oil.

Odorless (a.) Free from odor.

Odorous (a.) Having or emitting an odor or scent, esp. a sweet odor; fragrant; sweet-smelling.

Ods (interj.) A corruption of God's; -- formerly used in oaths and ejaculatory phrases.

Odyl (n.) Alt. of Odyle

Odyle (n.) See Od. [Archaic].

Odylic (a.) Of or pertaining to odyle; odic; as, odylic force.

Odyssey (n.) An epic poem attributed to Homer, which describes the return of Ulysses to Ithaca after the siege of Troy.

Oe () a diphthong, employed in the Latin language, and thence in the English language, as the representative of the Greek diphthong oi. In many words in common use, e alone stands instead of /. Classicists prefer to write the diphthong oe separate in Latin words.

Oecoid (n.) The colorless porous framework, or stroma, of red blood corpuscles from which the zooid, or hemoglobin and other substances of the corpuscles, may be dissolved out.

Oecology (n.) The various relations of animals and plants to one another and to the outer world.

Oeconomical (a.) See Economical.

Oeconomics (n.) See Economics.

Oeconomy (n.) See Economy.

Oecumenical (a.) See Ecumenical.

Oedema (n.) A swelling from effusion of watery fluid in the cellular tissue beneath the skin or mucous membrance; dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue.

Oedematous (a.) Pertaining to, or of the nature of, edema; affected with edema.

Oeiliad (n.) Alt. of Oeillade

Oeillade (n.) A glance of the eye; an amorous look.

Oelet (n.) An eye, bud, or shoot, as of a plant; an oilet.

Oenanthate (n.) A salt of the supposed /nanthic acid.

Oenanthic (a.) Having, or imparting, the odor characteristic of the bouquet of wine; specifically used, formerly, to designate an acid whose ethereal salts were supposed to occasion the peculiar bouquet, or aroma, of old wine. Cf. Oenanthylic.

Oenanthol (n.) An oily substance obtained by the distillation of castor oil, recognized as the aldehyde of oenanthylic acid, and hence called also oenanthaldehyde.

Oenanthone (n.) The ketone of oenanthic acid.

Oenanthyl (n.) A hydrocarbon radical formerly supposed to exist in oenanthic acid, now known to be identical with heptyl.

Oenanthylate (n.) A salt of /nanthylic acid; as, potassium oenanthylate.

Oenanthylic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, oenanthyl; specifically, designating an acid formerly supposed to be identical with the acid in oenanthic ether, but now known to be identical with heptoic acid.

Oenanthylidene (n.) A colorless liquid hydrocarbon, having a garlic odor; heptine.

Oenanthylous (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid formerly supposed to be the acid of oenanthylic ether, but now known to be a mixture of higher acids, especially capric acid.

Oenocyan (n.) The coloring matter of red wines.

Oenology (n.) Knowledge of wine, scientific or practical.

Oenomania (n.) Delirium tremens.

Oenomania (n.) Dipsomania.

Oenomel (n.) Wine mixed with honey; mead,

Oenometer (n.) See Alcoholometer.

Oenophilist (n.) A lover of wine.

Oenothionic (a.) Pertaining to an acid now called sulphovinic, / ethyl sulphuric, acid.

O'er (prep. & adv.) A contr. of Over.

Oesophagus (a.) Alt. of Oesophageal

Oesophageal (a.) Same as Esophagus, Esophageal, etc.

Oestrian (a.) Of or pertaining to the gadflies.

Oestrian (n.) A gadfly.

Oestrual (a.) Of or pertaining to sexual desire; -- mostly applied to brute animals; as, the oestrual period; oestrual influence.

Oestruation (n.) The state of being under oestrual influence, or of having sexual desire.

Oestrus (n.) A genus of gadflies. The species which deposits its larvae in the nasal cavities of sheep is oestrus ovis.

Oestrus (n.) A vehement desire; esp. (Physiol.), the periodical sexual impulse of animals; heat; rut.

Of (prep.) In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as:

Of (prep.) Denoting that from which anything proceeds; indicating origin, source, descent, and the like; as, he is of a race of kings; he is of noble blood.

Of (prep.) Denoting possession or ownership, or the relation of subject to attribute; as, the apartment of the consul: the power of the king; a man of courage; the gate of heaven.

Of (prep.) Denoting the material of which anything is composed, or that which it contains; as, a throne of gold; a sword of steel; a wreath of mist; a cup of water.

Of (prep.) Denoting part of an aggregate or whole; belonging to a number or quantity mentioned; out of; from amongst; as, of this little he had some to spare; some of the mines were unproductive; most of the company.

Of (prep.) Denoting that by which a person or thing is actuated or impelled; also, the source of a purpose or action; as, they went of their own will; no body can move of itself; he did it of necessity.

Of (prep.) Denoting reference to a thing; about; concerning; relating to; as, to boast of one's achievements.

Of (prep.) Denoting nearness or distance, either in space or time; from; as, within a league of the town; within an hour of the appointed time.

Of (prep.) Denoting identity or equivalence; -- used with a name or appellation, and equivalent to the relation of apposition; as, the continent of America; the city of Rome; the Island of Cuba.

Of (prep.) Denoting the agent, or person by whom, or thing by which, anything is, or is done; by.

Of (prep.) Denoting relation to place or time; belonging to, or connected with; as, men of Athens; the people of the Middle Ages; in the days of Herod.

Of (prep.) Denoting passage from one state to another; from.

Of (prep.) During; in the course of.

Off (adv.) In a general sense, denoting from or away from; as:

Off (adv.) Denoting distance or separation; as, the house is a mile off.

Off (adv.) Denoting the action of removing or separating; separation; as, to take off the hat or cloak; to cut off, to pare off, to clip off, to peel off, to tear off, to march off, to fly off, and the like.

Off (adv.) Denoting a leaving, abandonment, departure, abatement, interruption, or remission; as, the fever goes off; the pain goes off; the game is off; all bets are off.

Off (adv.) Denoting a different direction; not on or towards: away; as, to look off.

Off (adv.) Denoting opposition or negation.

Off (interj.) Away; begone; -- a command to depart.

Off (prep.) Not on; away from; as, to be off one's legs or off the bed; two miles off the shore.

Off (a.) On the farther side; most distant; on the side of an animal or a team farthest from the driver when he is on foot; in the United States, the right side; as, the off horse or ox in a team, in distinction from the nigh or near horse or ox; the off leg.

Off (a.) Designating a time when one is not strictly attentive to business or affairs, or is absent from his post, and, hence, a time when affairs are not urgent; as, he took an off day for fishing: an off year in politics.

Off (n.) The side of the field that is on the right of the wicket keeper.

Offal (n.) The rejected or waste parts of a butchered animal.

Offal (n.) A dead body; carrion.

Offal (n.) That which is thrown away as worthless or unfit for use; refuse; rubbish.

Offcut (n.) That which is cut off.

Offcut (n.) A portion ofthe printed sheet, in certain sizes of books, that is cut off before folding.

Offence (n.) See Offense.

Offended (imp. & p. p.) of Offend

Offending (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Offend

Offend (v. t.) To strike against; to attack; to assail.

Offend (v. t.) To displease; to make angry; to affront.

Offend (v. t.) To be offensive to; to harm; to pain; to annoy; as, strong light offends the eye; to offend the conscience.

Offend (v. t.) To transgress; to violate; to sin against.

Offend (v. t.) To oppose or obstruct in duty; to cause to stumble; to cause to sin or to fall.

Odfend (v. i.) To transgress the moral or divine law; to commit a crime; to stumble; to sin.

Odfend (v. i.) To cause dislike, anger, or vexation; to displease.

Offendant (n.) An offender.

Offender (n.) One who offends; one who violates any law, divine or human; a wrongdoer.

Offendress (n.) A woman who offends.

Offense (n.) Alt. of Offence

Offence (n.) The act of offending in any sense; esp., a crime or a sin, an affront or an injury.

Offence (n.) The state of being offended or displeased; anger; displeasure.

Offence (n.) A cause or occasion of stumbling or of sin.

Offenseful (a.) Causing offense; displeasing; wrong; as, an offenseful act.

Offenseless (a.) Unoffending; inoffensive.

Offensible (a.) That may give offense.

Offension (n.) Assault; attack.

Offensive (a.) Giving offense; causing displeasure or resentment; displeasing; annoying; as, offensive words.

Offensive (a.) Giving pain or unpleasant sensations; disagreeable; revolting; noxious; as, an offensive smell; offensive sounds.

Offensive (a.) Making the first attack; assailant; aggressive; hence, used in attacking; -- opposed to defensive; as, an offensive war; offensive weapons.

Offensive (n.) The state or posture of one who offends or makes attack; aggressive attitude; the act of the attacking party; -- opposed to defensive.

Offered (imp. & p. p.) of Offer

Offering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Offer

Offer (v. t.) To present, as an act of worship; to immolate; to sacrifice; to present in prayer or devotion; -- often with up.

Offer (v. t.) To bring to or before; to hold out to; to present for acceptance or rejection; as, to offer a present, or a bribe; to offer one's self in marriage.

Offer (v. t.) To present in words; to proffer; to make a proposal of; to suggest; as, to offer an opinion. With the infinitive as an objective: To make an offer; to declare one's willingness; as, he offered to help me.

Offer (v. t.) To attempt; to undertake.

Offer (v. t.) To bid, as a price, reward, or wages; as, to offer a guinea for a ring; to offer a salary or reward.