S () the nineteenth letter of the English alphabet, is a consonant, and is often called a sibilant, in allusion to its hissing sound. It has two principal sounds; one a mere hissing, as in sack, this; the other a vocal hissing (the same as that of z), as in is, wise. Besides these it sometimes has the sounds of sh and zh, as in sure, measure. It generally has its hissing sound at the beginning of words, but in the middle and at the end of words its sound is determined by usage. In a few words it is silent, as in isle, debris. With the letter h it forms the digraph sh. See Guide to pronunciation, // 255-261.

-s () The suffix used to form the plural of most words; as in roads, elfs, sides, accounts.

-s () The suffix used to form the third person singular indicative of English verbs; as in falls, tells, sends.

-s () An adverbial suffix; as in towards, needs, always, -- originally the genitive, possesive, ending. See -'s.

's () A contraction for is or (colloquially) for has.

Saadh (n.) See Sadh.

Saan (n. pl.) Same as Bushmen.

Sabadilla (n.) A Mexican liliaceous plant (Schoenocaulon officinale); also, its seeds, which contain the alkaloid veratrine. It was formerly used in medicine as an emetic and purgative.

Sabaean (a. & n.) Same as Sabian.

Sabaeanism (n.) Same as Sabianism.

Sabaeism (n.) Alt. of Sabaism

Sabaism (n.) See Sabianism.

Sabal (n.) A genus of palm trees including the palmetto of the Southern United States.

Sabaoth (n. pl.) Armies; hosts.

Sabaoth (n. pl.) Incorrectly, the Sabbath.

Sabbat (n.) In mediaeval demonology, the nocturnal assembly in which demons and sorcerers were thought to celebrate their orgies.

Sabbatarian (n.) One who regards and keeps the seventh day of the week as holy, agreeably to the letter of the fourth commandment in the Decalogue.

Sabbatarian (n.) A strict observer of the Sabbath.

Sabbatarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sabbath, or the tenets of Sabbatarians.

Sabbatarianism (n.) The tenets of Sabbatarians.

Sabbath (n.) A season or day of rest; one day in seven appointed for rest or worship, the observance of which was enjoined upon the Jews in the Decalogue, and has been continued by the Christian church with a transference of the day observed from the last to the first day of the week, which is called also Lord's Day.

Sabbath (n.) The seventh year, observed among the Israelites as one of rest and festival.

Sabbath (n.) Fig.: A time of rest or repose; intermission of pain, effort, sorrow, or the like.

Sabbathless (a.) Without Sabbath, or intermission of labor; hence, without respite or rest.

Sabbatic (a.) Alt. of Sabbatical

Sabbatical (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sabbath; resembling the Sabbath; enjoying or bringing an intermission of labor.

Sabbatism (n.) Intermission of labor, as upon the Sabbath; rest.

Sabbaton (n.) A round-toed, armed covering for the feet, worn during a part of the sixteenth century in both military and civil dress.

Sabean (a. & n.) Same as Sabian.

Sabeism (n.) Same as Sabianism.

Sabella (n.) A genus of tubicolous annelids having a circle of plumose gills around the head.

Sabellian (a.) Pertaining to the doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n.

Sabellian (n.) A follower of Sabellius, a presbyter of Ptolemais in the third century, who maintained that there is but one person in the Godhead, and that the Son and Holy Spirit are only different powers, operations, or offices of the one God the Father.

Sabellianism (n.) The doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n.

Sabelloid (a.) Like, or related to, the genus Sabella.

Saber (n.) Alt. of Sabre

Sabre (n.) A sword with a broad and heavy blade, thick at the back, and usually more or less curved like a scimiter; a cavalry sword.

Sabered (imp. & p. p.) of Sabre

Sabred () of Sabre

Sabering (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sabre

Sabring () of Sabre

Saber (v. t.) Alt. of Sabre

Sabre (v. t.) To strike, cut, or kill with a saber; to cut down, as with a saber.

Saberbill (n.) Alt. of Sabrebill

Sabrebill (n.) The curlew.

Sabian (a.) Of or pertaining to Saba in Arabia, celebrated for producing aromatic plants.

Sabian (a.) Relating to the religion of Saba, or to the worship of the heavenly bodies.

Sabian (n.) An adherent of the Sabian religion; a worshiper of the heavenly bodies.

Sabianism (n.) The doctrine of the Sabians; the Sabian religion; that species of idolatry which consists in worshiping the sun, moon, and stars; heliolatry.

Sabicu (n.) The very hard wood of a leguminous West Indian tree (Lysiloma Sabicu), valued for shipbuilding.

Sabine (a.) Of or pertaining to the ancient Sabines, a people of Italy.

Sabine (n.) One of the Sabine people.

Sabine (n.) See Savin.

Sable (n.) A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela zibellina) native of the northern latitudes of Europe, Asia, and America, -- noted for its fine, soft, and valuable fur.

Sable (n.) The fur of the sable.

Sable (n.) A mourning garment; a funeral robe; -- generally in the plural.

Sable (n.) The tincture black; -- represented by vertical and horizontal lines crossing each other.

Sable (a.) Of the color of the sable's fur; dark; black; -- used chiefly in poetry.

Sabled (imp. & p. p.) of Sable

Sabling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sable

Sable (v. t.) To render sable or dark; to drape darkly or in black.

Sabot (n.) A kind of wooden shoe worn by the peasantry in France, Belgium, Sweden, and some other European countries.

Sabot (n.) A thick, circular disk of wood, to which the cartridge bag and projectile are attached, in fixed ammunition for cannon; also, a piece of soft metal attached to a projectile to take the groove of the rifling.

Sabotiere (n.) A kind of freezer for ices.

Sabre (n. & v.) See Saber.

Sabretasche (n.) A leather case or pocket worn by cavalry at the left side, suspended from the sword belt.

Sabrina work () A variety of applique work for quilts, table covers, etc.

Sabulose (a.) Growing in sandy places.

Sabulosity (n.) The quality of being sabulous; sandiness; grittiness.

Sabulous (a.) Sandy; gritty.

Sac (n.) See Sacs.

Sac (n.) The privilege formerly enjoyed by the lord of a manor, of holding courts, trying causes, and imposing fines.

Sac (n.) See 2d Sack.

Sac (n.) A cavity, bag, or receptacle, usually containing fluid, and either closed, or opening into another cavity to the exterior; a sack.

Sacalait (n.) A kind of fresh-water bass; the crappie.

Sacar (n.) See Saker.

Saccade (n.) A sudden, violent check of a horse by drawing or twitching the reins on a sudden and with one pull.

Saccate (a.) Having the form of a sack or pouch; furnished with a sack or pouch, as a petal.

Saccate (a.) Of or pertaining to the Saccata, a suborder of ctenophores having two pouches into which the long tentacles can be retracted.

Saccharate (n.) A salt of saccharic acid.

Saccharate (n.) In a wider sense, a compound of saccharose, or any similar carbohydrate, with such bases as the oxides of calcium, barium, or lead; a sucrate.

Saccharic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, saccharine substances; specifically, designating an acid obtained, as a white amorphous gummy mass, by the oxidation of mannite, glucose, sucrose, etc.

Sacchariferous (a.) Producing sugar; as, sacchariferous canes.

Saccharified (imp. & p. p.) of Saccharify

Saccharifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saccharify

Saccharify (v. t.) To convert into, or to impregnate with, sugar.

Saccharilla (n.) A kind of muslin.

Saccharimeter (n.) An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of saccharine matter in any solution, as the juice of a plant, or brewers' and distillers' worts.

Saccharimetrical (a.) Of or pertaining to saccharimetry; obtained by saccharimetry.

Saccharimetry (n.) The act, process or method of determining the amount and kind of sugar present in sirup, molasses, and the like, especially by the employment of polarizing apparatus.

Saccharin (n.) A bitter white crystalline substance obtained from the saccharinates and regarded as the lactone of saccharinic acid; -- so called because formerly supposed to be isomeric with cane sugar (saccharose).

Saccharinate (n.) A salt of saccharinic acid.

Saccharinate (n.) A salt of saccharine.

Saccharine (a.) Of or pertaining to sugar; having the qualities of sugar; producing sugar; sweet; as, a saccharine taste; saccharine matter.

Saccharine (n.) A trade name for benzoic sulphinide.

Saccharinic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, saccharin; specifically, designating a complex acid not known in the free state but well known in its salts, which are obtained by boiling dextrose and levulose (invert sugar) with milk of lime.

Saccharized (imp. & p. p.) of Saccharize

Saccharizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saccharize

Saccharize (v. t.) To convert into, or to impregnate with, sugar.

Saccharoid (a.) Alt. of Saccharoidal

Saccharoidal (a.) Resembling sugar, as in taste, appearance, consistency, or composition; as, saccharoidal limestone.

Saccharometer (n.) A saccharimeter.

Saccharomyces (n.) A genus of budding fungi, the various species of which have the power, to a greater or less extent, or splitting up sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid. They are the active agents in producing fermentation of wine, beer, etc. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is the yeast of sedimentary beer. Also called Torula.

Saccharomycetes (n. pl.) A family of fungi consisting of the one genus Saccharomyces.

Saccharonate (n.) A salt of saccharonic acid.

Saccharone (n.) A white crystalline substance, C6H8O6, obtained by the oxidation of saccharin, and regarded as the lactone of saccharonic acid.

Saccharone (n.) An oily liquid, C6H10O2, obtained by the reduction of saccharin.

Saccharonic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or derived from, saccharone; specifically, designating an unstable acid which is obtained from saccharone (a) by hydration, and forms a well-known series of salts.

Saccharose (n.) Cane sugar; sucrose; also, in general, any one of the group of which saccharose, or sucrose proper, is the type. See Sucrose.

Saccharous (a.) Saccharine.

Saccharum (n.) A genus of tall tropical grasses including the sugar cane.

Saccholactate (n.) A salt of saccholactic acid; -- formerly called also saccholate.

Saccholactic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called mucic acid; saccholic.

Saccholic (a.) Saccholactic.

Sacchulmate (n.) A salt of sacchulmic acid.

Sacchulmic (a.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a dark amorphous substance by the long-continued boiling of sucrose with very dilute sulphuric acid. It resembles humic acid.

Sacchulmin (n.) An amorphous huminlike substance resembling sacchulmic acid, and produced together with it.

Sacciferous (a.) Bearing a sac.

Sacciform (a.) Having the general form of a sac.

Saccoglossa (n. pl.) Same as Pellibranchiata.

Saccular (a.) Like a sac; sacciform.

Sacculated (a.) Furnished with little sacs.

Saccule (n.) A little sac; specifically, the sacculus of the ear.

Sacculo-cochlear (a.) Pertaining to the sacculus and cochlea of the ear.

Sacculo-utricular (a.) Pertaining to the sacculus and utriculus of the ear.

Sacculi (pl. ) of Sacculus

Sacculus (n.) A little sac; esp., a part of the membranous labyrinth of the ear.

Sacci (pl. ) of Saccus

Saccus (n.) A sac.

Sacella (pl. ) of Sacellum

Sacellum (n.) An unroofed space consecrated to a divinity.

Sacellum (n.) A small monumental chapel in a church.

Sacerdotal (a.) Of or pertaining to priests, or to the order of priests; relating to the priesthood; priesty; as, sacerdotal dignity; sacerdotal functions.

Sacerdotalism (m.) The system, style, spirit, or character, of a priesthood, or sacerdotal order; devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order.

Sacerdotally (adv.) In a sacerdotal manner.

Sachel (n.) A small bag.

Sachem (n.) A chief of a tribe of the American Indians; a sagamore.

Sachemdom (n.) The government or jurisdiction of a sachem.

Sachemship (n.) Office or condition of a sachem.

Sachet (n.) A scent bag, or perfume cushion, to be laid among handkerchiefs, garments, etc., to perfume them.

Saciety (n.) Satiety.

Sack (n.) A name formerly given to various dry Spanish wines.

Sack (n.) A bag for holding and carrying goods of any kind; a receptacle made of some kind of pliable material, as cloth, leather, and the like; a large pouch.

Sack (n.) A measure of varying capacity, according to local usage and the substance. The American sack of salt is 215 pounds; the sack of wheat, two bushels.

Sack (n.) Originally, a loosely hanging garment for women, worn like a cloak about the shoulders, and serving as a decorative appendage to the gown; now, an outer garment with sleeves, worn by women; as, a dressing sack.

Sack (n.) A sack coat; a kind of coat worn by men, and extending from top to bottom without a cross seam.

Sack (n.) See 2d Sac, 2.

Sack (n.) Bed.

Sack (v. t.) To put in a sack; to bag; as, to sack corn.

Sack (v. t.) To bear or carry in a sack upon the back or the shoulders.

Sack (n.) The pillage or plunder, as of a town or city; the storm and plunder of a town; devastation; ravage.

Sacked (imp. & p. p.) of Sack

Sacking (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sack

Sack (v. t.) To plunder or pillage, as a town or city; to devastate; to ravage.

Sackage (n.) The act of taking by storm and pillaging; sack.

Sackbut (n.) A brass wind instrument, like a bass trumpet, so contrived that it can be lengthened or shortened according to the tone required; -- said to be the same as the trombone.

Sackcloth (n.) Linen or cotton cloth such as sacks are made of; coarse cloth; anciently, a cloth or garment worn in mourning, distress, mortification, or penitence.

Sackclothed (a.) Clothed in sackcloth.

Sacker (n.) One who sacks; one who takes part in the storm and pillage of a town.

Sackfuls (pl. ) of Sackful

Sackful (n.) As much as a sack will hold.

Sackful (a.) Bent on plunder.

Sacking (n.) Stout, coarse cloth of which sacks, bags, etc., are made.

Sackless (a.) Quiet; peaceable; harmless; innocent.

Sack-winged (a.) Having a peculiar pouch developed near the front edge of the wing; -- said of certain bats of the genus Saccopteryx.

Sacque (n.) Same as 2d Sack, 3.

Sacral (a.) Of or pertaining to the sacrum; in the region of the sacrum.

Sacrament (n.) The oath of allegiance taken by Roman soldiers; hence, a sacred ceremony used to impress an obligation; a solemn oath-taking; an oath.

Sacrament (n.) The pledge or token of an oath or solemn covenant; a sacred thing; a mystery.

Sacrament (n.) One of the solemn religious ordinances enjoined by Christ, the head of the Christian church, to be observed by his followers; hence, specifically, the eucharist; the Lord's Supper.

Sacrament (v. t.) To bind by an oath.

Sacramental (a.) Of or pertaining to a sacrament or the sacraments; of the nature of a sacrament; sacredly or solemnly binding; as, sacramental rites or elements.

Sacramental (a.) Bound by a sacrament.

Sacramental (n.) That which relates to a sacrament.

Sacramentalism (n.) The doctrine and use of sacraments; attachment of excessive importance to sacraments.

Sacramentalist (n.) One who holds the doctrine of the real objective presence of Christ's body and blood in the holy eucharist.

Sacramentally (adv.) In a sacramental manner.

Sacramentarian (n.) A name given in the sixteenth century to those German reformers who rejected both the Roman and the Lutheran doctrine of the holy eucharist.

Sacramentarian (n.) One who holds extreme opinions regarding the efficacy of sacraments.

Sacramentarian (a.) Of or pertaining a sacrament, or to the sacramentals; sacramental.

Sacramentarian (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sacramentarians.

Sacramentary (a.) Of or pertaining to a sacrament or the sacraments; sacramental.

Sacramentary (a.) Of or pertaining to the Sacramentarians.

-ries (pl. ) of Sacramentary

Sacramentary (n.) An ancient book of the Roman Catholic Church, written by Pope Gelasius, and revised, corrected, and abridged by St. Gregory, in which were contained the rites for Mass, the sacraments, the dedication of churches, and other ceremonies. There are several ancient books of the same kind in France and Germany.

Sacramentary (n.) Same as Sacramentarian, n., 1.

Sacramentize (v. i.) To administer the sacraments.

-ria (pl. ) of Sacrarium

Sacrarium (n.) A sort of family chapel in the houses of the Romans, devoted to a special divinity.

Sacrarium (n.) The adytum of a temple.

Sacrarium (n.) In a Christian church, the sanctuary.

Sacrate (v. t.) To consecrate.

Sacration (n.) Consecration.

Sacre (n.) See Saker.

Sacre (v. t.) To consecrate; to make sacred.

Sacred (a.) Set apart by solemn religious ceremony; especially, in a good sense, made holy; set apart to religious use; consecrated; not profane or common; as, a sacred place; a sacred day; sacred service.

Sacred (a.) Relating to religion, or to the services of religion; not secular; religious; as, sacred history.

Sacred (a.) Designated or exalted by a divine sanction; possessing the highest title to obedience, honor, reverence, or veneration; entitled to extreme reverence; venerable.

Sacred (a.) Hence, not to be profaned or violated; inviolable.

Sacred (a.) Consecrated; dedicated; devoted; -- with to.

Sacred (a.) Solemnly devoted, in a bad sense, as to evil, vengeance, curse, or the like; accursed; baleful.

Sacrific (a.) Alt. of Sacrifical

Sacrifical (a.) Employed in sacrifice.

Sacrificable (a.) Capable of being offered in sacrifice.

Sacrificant (n.) One who offers a sacrifice.

Sacrificator (n.) A sacrificer; one who offers a sacrifice.

Sacrificatory (n.) Offering sacrifice.

Sacrifice (n.) The offering of anything to God, or to a god; consecratory rite.

Sacrifice (n.) Anything consecrated and offered to God, or to a divinity; an immolated victim, or an offering of any kind, laid upon an altar, or otherwise presented in the way of religious thanksgiving, atonement, or conciliation.

Sacrifice (n.) Destruction or surrender of anything for the sake of something else; devotion of some desirable object in behalf of a higher object, or to a claim deemed more pressing; hence, also, the thing so devoted or given up; as, the sacrifice of interest to pleasure, or of pleasure to interest.

Sacrifice (n.) A sale at a price less than the cost or the actual value.

Sacrificed (imp. & p. p.) of Sacrifice

Sacrificing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sacrifice

Sacrifice (n.) To make an offering of; to consecrate or present to a divinity by way of expiation or propitiation, or as a token acknowledgment or thanksgiving; to immolate on the altar of God, in order to atone for sin, to procure favor, or to express thankfulness; as, to sacrifice an ox or a sheep.

Sacrifice (n.) Hence, to destroy, surrender, or suffer to be lost, for the sake of obtaining something; to give up in favor of a higher or more imperative object or duty; to devote, with loss or suffering.

Sacrifice (n.) To destroy; to kill.

Sacrifice (n.) To sell at a price less than the cost or the actual value.

Sacrifice (v. i.) To make offerings to God, or to a deity, of things consumed on the altar; to offer sacrifice.

Sacrificer (n.) One who sacrifices.

Sacrificial (a.) Of or pertaining to sacrifice or sacrifices; consisting in sacrifice; performing sacrifice.

Sacrilege (n.) The sin or crime of violating or profaning sacred things; the alienating to laymen, or to common purposes, what has been appropriated or consecrated to religious persons or uses.

Sacrilegious (a.) Violating sacred things; polluted with sacrilege; involving sacrilege; profane; impious.

Sacrilegist (n.) One guilty of sacrilege.

Sacring () a. & n. from Sacre.

Sacrist (n.) A sacristan; also, a person retained in a cathedral to copy out music for the choir, and take care of the books.

Sacristan (n.) An officer of the church who has the care of the utensils or movables, and of the church in general; a sexton.

Sacristies (pl. ) of Sacristy

Sacristy (n.) An apartment in a church where the sacred utensils, vestments, etc., are kept; a vestry.

Sacro- () A combining form denoting connection with, or relation to, the sacrum, as in sacro-coccygeal, sacro-iliac, sacrosciatic.

Sacrosanct (a.) Sacred; inviolable.

Sacrosciatic (a.) Of or pertaining to both the sacrum and the hip; as, the sacrosciatic foramina formed by the sacrosciatic ligaments which connect the sacrum and the hip bone.

Sacrovertebral (a.) Of or pertaining to the sacrum and that part of the vertebral column immediately anterior to it; as, the sacrovertebral angle.

sacra (pl. ) of Sacrum

Sacrum (n.) That part of the vertebral column which is directly connected with, or forms a part of, the pelvis.

Sacs (n. pl.) A tribe of Indians, which, together with the Foxes, formerly occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin.

Sad (supperl.) Sated; satisfied; weary; tired.

Sad (supperl.) Heavy; weighty; ponderous; close; hard.

Sad (supperl.) Dull; grave; dark; somber; -- said of colors.

Sad (supperl.) Serious; grave; sober; steadfast; not light or frivolous.

Sad (supperl.) Affected with grief or unhappiness; cast down with affliction; downcast; gloomy; mournful.

Sad (supperl.) Afflictive; calamitous; causing sorrow; as, a sad accident; a sad misfortune.

Sad (supperl.) Hence, bad; naughty; troublesome; wicked.

Sad (v. t.) To make sorrowful; to sadden.

Sadda (n.) A work in the Persian tongue, being a summary of the Zend-Avesta, or sacred books.

Saddened (imp. & p. p.) of Sadden

Saddening (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sadden

Sadden (v. t.) To make sad.

Sadden (v. t.) To render heavy or cohesive.

Sadden (v. t.) To make dull- or sad-colored, as cloth.

Sadden (v. t.) To make grave or serious; to make melancholy or sorrowful.

Sadden (v. i.) To become, or be made, sad.

Sadder (n.) Same as Sadda.

Saddle (n.) A seat for a rider, -- usually made of leather, padded to span comfortably a horse's back, furnished with stirrups for the rider's feet to rest in, and fastened in place with a girth; also, a seat for the rider on a bicycle or tricycle.

Saddle (n.) A padded part of a harness which is worn on a horse's back, being fastened in place with a girth. It serves various purposes, as to keep the breeching in place, carry guides for the reins, etc.

Saddle (n.) A piece of meat containing a part of the backbone of an animal with the ribs on each side; as, a saddle of mutton, of venison, etc.

Saddle (n.) A block of wood, usually fastened to some spar, and shaped to receive the end of another spar.

Saddle (n.) A part, as a flange, which is hollowed out to fit upon a convex surface and serve as a means of attachment or support.

Saddle (n.) The clitellus of an earthworm.

Saddle (n.) The threshold of a door, when a separate piece from the floor or landing; -- so called because it spans and covers the joint between two floors.

Saddled (imp. & p. p.) of Saddle

Saddling (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saddle

Saddle (v. t.) To put a saddle upon; to equip (a beast) for riding.

Saddle (v. t.) Hence: To fix as a charge or burden upon; to load; to encumber; as, to saddle a town with the expense of bridges and highways.

Saddleback (a.) Same as Saddle-backed.

Saddleback (n.) Anything saddle-backed; esp., a hill or ridge having a concave outline at the top.

Saddleback (n.) The harp seal.

Saddleback (n.) The great blackbacked gull (Larus marinus).

Saddleback (n.) The larva of a bombycid moth (Empretia stimulea) which has a large, bright green, saddle-shaped patch of color on the back.

Saddle-backed (a.) Having the outline of the upper part concave like the seat of a saddle.

Saddle-backed (a.) Having a low back and high neck, as a horse.

Saddlebags (n. pl.) Bags, usually of leather, united by straps or a band, formerly much used by horseback riders to carry small articles, one bag hanging on each side.

Saddlebow (n.) The bow or arch in the front part of a saddle, or the pieces which form the front.

Saddlecloth (n.) A cloth under a saddle, and extending out behind; a housing.

Saddled (a.) Having a broad patch of color across the back, like a saddle; saddle-backed.

Saddler (n.) One who makes saddles.

Saddler (n.) A harp seal.

Saddlery (n.) The materials for making saddles and harnesses; the articles usually offered for sale in a saddler's shop.

Saddlery (n.) The trade or employment of a saddler.

Saddle-shaped (a.) Shaped like a saddle.

Saddle-shaped (a.) Bent down at the sides so as to give the upper part a rounded form.

Saddle-shaped (a.) Bent on each side of a mountain or ridge, without being broken at top; -- said of strata.

Saddletree (n.) The frame of a saddle.

Sadducaic (a.) Pertaining to, or like, the Sadducees; as, Sadducaic reasonings.

Sadducee (n.) One of a sect among the ancient Jews, who denied the resurrection, a future state, and the existence of angels.

Sadduceeism (n.) Alt. of Sadducism

Sadducism (n.) The tenets of the Sadducees.

Sadducized (imp. & p. p.) of Sadducize

Sadducizing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sadducize

Sadducize (v. i.) To adopt the principles of the Sadducees.

Sadh (n.) A member of a monotheistic sect of Hindoos. Sadhs resemble the Quakers in many respects.

Sadiron (n.) An iron for smoothing clothes; a flatiron.

Sadly (adv.) Wearily; heavily; firmly.

Sadly (adv.) Seriously; soberly; gravely.

Sadly (adv.) Grievously; deeply; sorrowfully; miserably.

Sadness (n.) Heaviness; firmness.

Sadness (n.) Seriousness; gravity; discretion.

Sadness (n.) Quality of being sad, or unhappy; gloominess; sorrowfulness; dejection.

Sadr (n.) A plant of the genus Ziziphus (Z. lotus); -- so called by the Arabs of Barbary, who use its berries for food. See Lotus (b).

Saengerfest (n.) A festival of singers; a German singing festival.

Safe (superl.) Free from harm, injury, or risk; untouched or unthreatened by danger or injury; unharmed; unhurt; secure; whole; as, safe from disease; safe from storms; safe from foes.

Safe (superl.) Conferring safety; securing from harm; not exposing to danger; confining securely; to be relied upon; not dangerous; as, a safe harbor; a safe bridge, etc.

Safe (superl.) Incapable of doing harm; no longer dangerous; in secure care or custody; as, the prisoner is safe.

Safe (n.) A place for keeping things in safety.

Safe (n.) A strong and fireproof receptacle (as a movable chest of steel, etc., or a closet or vault of brickwork) for containing money, valuable papers, or the like.

Safe (n.) A ventilated or refrigerated chest or closet for securing provisions from noxious animals or insects.

Safe (v. t.) To render safe; to make right.

Safe-conduct (n.) That which gives a safe passage

Safe-conduct (n.) a convoy or guard to protect a person in an enemy's country or a foreign country

Safe-conduct (n.) a writing, pass, or warrant of security, given to a person to enable him to travel with safety.

Safe-conduct (v. t.) To conduct safely; to give safe-conduct to.

Safeguard (n.) One who, or that which, defends or protects; defense; protection.

Safeguard (n.) A convoy or guard to protect a traveler or property.

Safeguard (n.) A pass; a passport; a safe-conduct.

Safeguard (v. t.) To guard; to protect.

Safe-keeping (n.) The act of keeping or preserving in safety from injury or from escape; care; custody.

Safely (adv.) In a safe manner; danger, injury, loss, or evil consequences.

Safeness (n.) The quality or state of being safe; freedom from hazard, danger, harm, or loss; safety; security; as the safeness of an experiment, of a journey, or of a possession.

Safe-pledge (n.) A surety for the appearance of a person at a given time.

Safety (n.) The condition or state of being safe; freedom from danger or hazard; exemption from hurt, injury, or loss.

Safety (n.) Freedom from whatever exposes one to danger or from liability to cause danger or harm; safeness; hence, the quality of making safe or secure, or of giving confidence, justifying trust, insuring against harm or loss, etc.

Safety (n.) Preservation from escape; close custody.

Safety (n.) Same as Safety touchdown, below.

Safflow (n.) The safflower.

Safflower (n.) An annual composite plant (Carthamus tinctorius), the flowers of which are used as a dyestuff and in making rouge; bastard, or false, saffron.

Safflower (n.) The dried flowers of the Carthamus tinctorius.

Safflower (n.) A dyestuff from these flowers. See Safranin (b).

Saffron (n.) A bulbous iridaceous plant (Crocus sativus) having blue flowers with large yellow stigmas. See Crocus.

Saffron (n.) The aromatic, pungent, dried stigmas, usually with part of the stile, of the Crocus sativus. Saffron is used in cookery, and in coloring confectionery, liquors, varnishes, etc., and was formerly much used in medicine.

Saffron (n.) An orange or deep yellow color, like that of the stigmas of the Crocus sativus.

Saffron (a.) Having the color of the stigmas of saffron flowers; deep orange-yellow; as, a saffron face; a saffron streamer.

Saffron (v. t.) To give color and flavor to, as by means of saffron; to spice.

Saffrony (a.) Having a color somewhat like saffron; yellowish.

Safranin (n.) An orange-red dyestuff extracted from the saffron.

Safranin (n.) A red dyestuff extracted from the safflower, and formerly used in dyeing wool, silk, and cotton pink and scarlet; -- called also Spanish red, China lake, and carthamin.

Safranin (n.) An orange-red dyestuff prepared from certain nitro compounds of creosol, and used as a substitute for the safflower dye.

Safranine (n.) An orange-red nitrogenous dyestuff produced artificially by oxidizing certain aniline derivatives, and used in dyeing silk and wool; also, any one of the series of which safranine proper is the type.

Sagged (imp. & p. p.) of Sag

Sagging (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sag

Sag (v. i.) To sink, in the middle, by its weight or under applied pressure, below a horizontal line or plane; as, a line or cable supported by its ends sags, though tightly drawn; the floor of a room sags; hence, to lean, give way, or settle from a vertical position; as, a building may sag one way or another; a door sags on its hinges.

Sag (v. i.) Fig.: To lose firmness or elasticity; to sink; to droop; to flag; to bend; to yield, as the mind or spirits, under the pressure of care, trouble, doubt, or the like; to be unsettled or unbalanced.

Sag (v. i.) To loiter in walking; to idle along; to drag or droop heavily.

Sag (v. t.) To cause to bend or give way; to load.

Sag (n.) State of sinking or bending; sagging.

Sagas (pl. ) of Saga

Saga (n.) A Scandinavian legend, or heroic or mythic tradition, among the Norsemen and kindred people; a northern European popular historical or religious tale of olden time.

Sagacious (a.) Of quick sense perceptions; keen-scented; skilled in following a trail.

Sagacious (a.) Hence, of quick intellectual perceptions; of keen penetration and judgment; discerning and judicious; knowing; far-sighted; shrewd; sage; wise; as, a sagacious man; a sagacious remark.

Sagacity (n.) The quality of being sagacious; quickness or acuteness of sense perceptions; keenness of discernment or penetration with soundness of judgment; shrewdness.

Sagamore (n.) The head of a tribe among the American Indians; a chief; -- generally used as synonymous with sachem, but some writters distinguished between them, making the sachem a chief of the first rank, and a sagamore one of the second rank.

Sagamore (n.) A juice used in medicine.

Sagapen (n.) Sagapenum.

Sagapenum (n.) A fetid gum resin obtained from a species of Ferula. It has been used in hysteria, etc., but is now seldom met with.

Sagathy (n.) A mixed woven fabric of silk and cotton, or silk and wool; sayette; also, a light woolen fabric.

Sage (n.) A suffruticose labiate plant (Salvia officinalis) with grayish green foliage, much used in flavoring meats, etc. The name is often extended to the whole genus, of which many species are cultivated for ornament, as the scarlet sage, and Mexican red and blue sage.

Sage (n.) The sagebrush.

Sage (superl.) Having nice discernment and powers of judging; prudent; grave; sagacious.

Sage (superl.) Proceeding from wisdom; well judged; shrewd; well adapted to the purpose.

Sage (superl.) Grave; serious; solemn.

Sage (n.) A wise man; a man of gravity and wisdom; especially, a man venerable for years, and of sound judgment and prudence; a grave philosopher.

Sagebrush (n.) A low irregular shrub (Artemisia tridentata), of the order Compositae, covering vast tracts of the dry alkaline regions of the American plains; -- called also sagebush, and wild sage.

Sagely (adv.) In a sage manner; wisely.

Sagene (n.) A Russian measure of length equal to about seven English feet.

Sageness (n.) The quality or state of being sage; wisdom; sagacity; prudence; gravity.

Sagenite (n.) Acicular rutile occurring in reticulated forms imbedded in quartz.

Sagenitic (a.) Resembling sagenite; -- applied to quartz when containing acicular crystals of other minerals, most commonly rutile, also tourmaline, actinolite, and the like.

Sagger (n.) A pot or case of fire clay, in which fine stoneware is inclosed while baking in the kiln; a seggar.

Sagger (n.) The clay of which such pots or cases are made.

Sagging (n.) A bending or sinking between the ends of a thing, in consequence of its own, or an imposed, weight; an arching downward in the middle, as of a ship after straining. Cf. Hogging.

Saginate (v. t.) To make fat; to pamper.

Sagination (n.) The act of fattening or pampering.

Sagitta (n.) A small constellation north of Aquila; the Arrow.

Sagitta (n.) The keystone of an arch.

Sagitta (n.) The distance from a point in a curve to the chord; also, the versed sine of an arc; -- so called from its resemblance to an arrow resting on the bow and string.

Sagitta (n.) The larger of the two otoliths, or ear bones, found in most fishes.

Sagitta (n.) A genus of transparent, free-swimming marine worms having lateral and caudal fins, and capable of swimming rapidly. It is the type of the class Chaetognatha.

Sagittal (a.) Of or pertaining to an arrow; resembling an arrow; furnished with an arrowlike appendage.

Sagittal (a.) Of or pertaining to the sagittal suture; in the region of the sagittal suture; rabdoidal; as, the sagittal furrow, or groove, on the inner surface of the roof of the skull.

Sagittal (a.) In the mesial plane; mesial; as, a sagittal section of an animal.

Sagittarius (n.) The ninth of the twelve signs of the zodiac, which the sun enters about November 22, marked thus [/] in almanacs; the Archer.

Sagittarius (n.) A zodiacal constellation, represented on maps and globes as a centaur shooting an arrow.

Sagittary (n.) A centaur; a fabulous being, half man, half horse, armed with a bow and quiver.

Sagittary (n.) The Arsenal in Venice; -- so called from having a figure of an archer over the door.

Sagittary (a.) Pertaining to, or resembling, an arrow.

Sagittate (a.) Shaped like an arrowhead; triangular, with the two basal angles prolonged downward.

Sagittated (a.) Sagittal; sagittate.

Sagittocyst (n.) A defensive cell containing a minute rodlike structure which may be expelled. Such cells are found in certain Turbellaria.

Sago (n.) A dry granulated starch imported from the East Indies, much used for making puddings and as an article of diet for the sick; also, as starch, for stiffening textile fabrics. It is prepared from the stems of several East Indian and Malayan palm trees, but chiefly from the Metroxylon Sagu; also from several cycadaceous plants (Cycas revoluta, Zamia integrifolia, etc.).

Sagoin (n.) A marmoset; -- called also sagouin.

Saga (pl. ) of Sagum

Sagum (n.) The military cloak of the Roman soldiers.

Sagus (n.) A genus of palms from which sago is obtained.

Sagy (a.) Full of sage; seasoned with sage.

Sahib (n.) Alt. of Saheb

Saheb (n.) A respectful title or appellation given to Europeans of rank.

Sahibah (n.) A lady; mistress.

Sahidic (a.) Same as Thebaic.

Sahlite (n.) See Salite.

Sahui (n.) A marmoset.

Sai (n.) See Capuchin, 3 (a).

Saibling (n.) A European mountain trout (Salvelinus alpinus); -- called also Bavarian charr.

Saic (n.) A kind of ketch very common in the Levant, which has neither topgallant sail nor mizzen topsail.

Said () imp. & p. p. of Say.

Said (a.) Before-mentioned; already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly in legal style.

Saiga (n.) An antelope (Saiga Tartarica) native of the plains of Siberia and Eastern Russia. The male has erect annulated horns, and tufts of long hair beneath the eyes and ears.

Saikyr (n.) Same as Saker.

Sail (n.) An extent of canvas or other fabric by means of which the wind is made serviceable as a power for propelling vessels through the water.

Sail (n.) Anything resembling a sail, or regarded as a sail.

Sail (n.) A wing; a van.

Sail (n.) The extended surface of the arm of a windmill.

Sail (n.) A sailing vessel; a vessel of any kind; a craft.

Sail (n.) A passage by a sailing vessel; a journey or excursion upon the water.

Sailed (imp. & p. p.) of Sail

Sailing (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sail

Sail (n.) To be impelled or driven forward by the action of wind upon sails, as a ship on water; to be impelled on a body of water by the action of steam or other power.

Sail (n.) To move through or on the water; to swim, as a fish or a water fowl.

Sail (n.) To be conveyed in a vessel on water; to pass by water; as, they sailed from London to Canton.

Sail (n.) To set sail; to begin a voyage.

Sail (n.) To move smoothly through the air; to glide through the air without apparent exertion, as a bird.

Sail (v. t.) To pass or move upon, as in a ship, by means of sails; hence, to move or journey upon (the water) by means of steam or other force.

Sail (v. t.) To fly through; to glide or move smoothly through.

Sail (v. t.) To direct or manage the motion of, as a vessel; as, to sail one's own ship.

Sailable (a.) Capable of being sailed over; navigable; as, a sailable river.

Sailboat (n.) A boat propelled by a sail or sails.

Sailcloth (n.) Duck or canvas used in making sails.

Sailer (n.) A sailor.

Sailer (n.) A ship or other vessel; -- with qualifying words descriptive of speed or manner of sailing; as, a heavy sailer; a fast sailer.

Sailfish (n.) The banner fish, or spikefish (Histiophorus.)

Sailfish (n.) The basking, or liver, shark.

Sailfish (n.) The quillback.

Sailing (n.) The act of one who, or that which, sails; the motion of a vessel on water, impelled by wind or steam; the act of starting on a voyage.

Sailing (n.) The art of managing a vessel; seamanship; navigation; as, globular sailing; oblique sailing.

Sailless (a.) Destitute of sails.

Sailmaker (n.) One whose occupation is to make or repair sails.

Sailor (n.) One who follows the business of navigating ships or other vessels; one who understands the practical management of ships; one of the crew of a vessel; a mariner; a common seaman.

Saily (a.) Like a sail.

Saim (n.) Lard; grease.

Saimir (n.) The squirrel monkey.

Sain (p. p.) Said.

Sain (v. t.) To sanctify; to bless so as to protect from evil influence.

Sainfoin (n.) A leguminous plant (Onobrychis sativa) cultivated for fodder.

Sainfoin (n.) A kind of tick trefoil (Desmodium Canadense).

Saint (n.) A person sanctified; a holy or godly person; one eminent for piety and virtue; any true Christian, as being redeemed and consecrated to God.

Saint (n.) One of the blessed in heaven.

Saint (n.) One canonized by the church.

Sainted (imp. & p. p.) of Saint

Sainting (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Saint

Saint (v. t.) To make a saint of; to enroll among the saints by an offical act, as of the pope; to canonize; to give the title or reputation of a saint to (some one).

Saint (v. i.) To act or live as a saint.

Saintdom (n.) The state or character of a saint.

Sainted (a.) Consecrated; sacred; holy; pious.

Sainted (a.) Entered into heaven; -- a euphemism for dead.

Saintess (n.) A female saint.

Sainthood (n.) The state of being a saint; the condition of a saint.

Sainthood (n.) The order, or united body, of saints; saints, considered collectively.

Saintish (a.) Somewhat saintlike; -- used ironically.

Saintism (n.) The character or quality of saints; also, hypocritical pretense of holiness.

Saintlike (a.) Resembling a saint; suiting a saint; becoming a saint; saintly.

Saintliness (n.) Quality of being saintly.

Saintly (superl.) Like a saint; becoming a holy person.

Saintologist (n.) One who writes the lives of saints.

Saintship (n.) The character or qualities of a saint.

Saint-Simonian (n.) A follower of the Count de St. Simon, who died in 1825, and who maintained that the principle of property held in common, and the just division of the fruits of common labor among the members of society, are the true remedy for the social evils which exist.

Saint-Simonianism (n.) The principles, doctrines, or practice of the Saint-Simonians; -- called also Saint- Simonism.

Saith () 3d pers. sing. pres. of Say.

Saithe (n.) The pollock, or coalfish; -- called also sillock.

Saiva (n.) One of an important religious sect in India which regards Siva with peculiar veneration.

Saivism (n.) The worship of Siva.

Sajene (n.) Same as Sagene.

Sajou (n.) Same as Sapajou.

Sake (n.) Final cause; end; purpose of obtaining; cause; motive; reason; interest; concern; account; regard or respect; -- used chiefly in such phrases as, for the sake of, for his sake, for man's sake, for mercy's sake, and the like; as, to commit crime for the sake of gain; to go abroad for the sake of one's health.

Saker (n.) A falcon (Falco sacer) native of Southern Europe and Asia, closely resembling the lanner.

Saker (n.) The peregrine falcon.

Saker (n.) A small piece of artillery.

Sakeret (n.) The male of the saker (a).

Saki (n.) Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the genus Pithecia. They have large ears, and a long hairy tail which is not prehensile.

Saki (n.) The alcoholic drink of Japan. It is made from rice.

Sakti (n.) The divine energy, personified as the wife of a deity (Brahma, Vishnu, Siva, etc.); the female principle.

Sal (n.) An East Indian timber tree (Shorea robusta), much used for building purposes. It is of a light brown color, close-grained, heavy, and durable.

Sal (n.) Salt.

Salaam (n.) Same as Salam.

Salaam (v. i.) To make or perform a salam.

Salability (n.) The quality or condition of being salable; salableness.

Salable (a.) Capable of being sold; fit to be sold; finding a ready market.

Salacious (n.) Having a propensity to venery; lustful; lecherous.

Salacity (n.) Strong propensity to venery; lust; lecherousness.

Salad (n.) A preparation of vegetables, as lettuce, celery, water cress, onions, etc., usually dressed with salt, vinegar, oil, and spice, and eaten for giving a relish to other food; as, lettuce salad; tomato salad, etc.

Salad (n.) A dish composed of chopped meat or fish, esp. chicken or lobster, mixed with lettuce or other vegetables, and seasoned with oil, vinegar, mustard, and other condiments; as, chicken salad; lobster salad.

Salade (n.) A helmet. See Sallet.

Salading (n.) Vegetables for salad.

Salaeratus (n.) See Saleratus.

Salagane (n.) The esculent swallow. See under Esculent.

Salal-berry (n.) The edible fruit of the Gaultheria Shallon, an ericaceous shrub found from California northwards. The berries are about the size of a common grape and of a dark purple color.

Salam (n.) A salutation or compliment of ceremony in the east by word or act; an obeisance, performed by bowing very low and placing the right palm on the forehead.

Salamander (n.) Any one of numerous species of Urodela, belonging to Salamandra, Amblystoma, Plethodon, and various allied genera, especially those that are more or less terrestrial in their habits.

Salamander (n.) The pouched gopher (Geomys tuza) of the Southern United States.

Salamander (n.) A culinary utensil of metal with a plate or disk which is heated, and held over pastry, etc., to brown it.

Salamander (n.) A large poker.

Salamander (n.) Solidified material in a furnace hearth.

Salamandrina (n.) A suborder of Urodela, comprising salamanders.

Salamandrine (a.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a salamander; enduring fire.

Salamandroid (a.) Like or pertaining to the salamanders.

Salamandroidea (n. pl.) A division of Amphibia including the Salamanders and allied groups; the Urodela.

Salamstone (n.) A kind of blue sapphire brought from Ceylon.

Salangana (n.) The salagane.

Salaried (a.) Receiving a salary; paid by a salary; having a salary attached; as, a salaried officer; a salaried office.

Salary (a.) Saline

Salaries (pl. ) of Salary

Salary (n.) The recompense or consideration paid, or stipulated to be paid, to a person at regular intervals for services; fixed wages, as by the year, quarter, or month; stipend; hire.

Salaried (imp. & p. p.) of Salary

Salarying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salary

Salary (v. t.) To pay, or agree to pay, a salary to; to attach salary to; as, to salary a clerk; to salary a position.

Sale (n.) See 1st Sallow.

Sale (v. t.) The act of selling; the transfer of property, or a contract to transfer the ownership of property, from one person to another for a valuable consideration, or for a price in money.

Sale (v. t.) Opportunity of selling; demand; market.

Sale (v. t.) Public disposal to the highest bidder, or exposure of goods in market; auction.

Saleable (adv.) Alt. of Saleably

Saleably (adv.) See Salable, Salably, etc.

Saleb (n.) See Salep.

Salebrosity (n.) Roughness or ruggedness.

Salebrous (a.) Rough; rugged.

Salep (n.) The dried tubers of various species of Orchis, and Eulophia. It is used to make a nutritious beverage by treating the powdered preparation with hot water.

Saleratus (n.) Aerated salt; a white crystalline substance having an alkaline taste and reaction, consisting of sodium bicarbonate (see under Sodium.) It is largely used in cooking, with sour milk (lactic acid) or cream of tartar as a substitute for yeast. It is also an ingredient of most baking powders, and is used in the preparation of effervescing drinks.

Salesmen (pl. ) of Salesman

Salesman (n.) One who sells anything; one whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise.

Saleswomen (pl. ) of Saleswoman

Saleswoman (n.) A woman whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise.

Salework (n.) Work or things made for sale; hence, work done carelessly or slightingly.

Salian (a.) Denoting a tribe of Franks who established themselves early in the fourth century on the river Sala [now Yssel]; Salic.

Salian (n.) A Salian Frank.

Saliant (a.) Same as Salient.

Saliaunce (a.) Salience; onslaught.

Salic (a.) Of or pertaining to the Salian Franks, or to the Salic law so called.

Salicaceous (a.) Belonging or relating to the willow.

Salicin (n.) A glucoside found in the bark and leaves of several species of willow (Salix) and poplar, and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance.

Salicyl (n.) The hypothetical radical of salicylic acid and of certain related compounds.

Salicylal (n.) A thin, fragrant, colorless oil, HO.C6H4.CHO, found in the flowers of meadow sweet (Spiraea), and also obtained by oxidation of salicin, saligenin, etc. It reddens on exposure. Called also salicylol, salicylic aldehyde, and formerly salicylous, / spiroylous, acid.

Salicylate (n.) A salt of salicylic acid.

Salicylic (a.) Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid formerly obtained by fusing salicin with potassium hydroxide, and now made in large quantities from phenol (carbolic acid) by the action of carbon dioxide on heated sodium phenolate. It is a white crystalline substance. It is used as an antiseptic, and in its salts in the treatment of rheumatism. Called also hydroxybenzoic acid.

Salicylide (n.) A white crystalline substance obtained by dehydration of salicylic acid.

Salicylite (n.) A compound of salicylal; -- named after the analogy of a salt.

Salicylol (n.) Same as Salicylal.

Salicylous (a.) Pertaining to, or designating, a substance formerly called salicylous acid, and now salicylal.

Salience (n.) The quality or condition of being salient; a leaping; a springing forward; an assaulting.

Salience (n.) The quality or state of projecting, or being projected; projection; protrusion.

Saliency (n.) Quality of being salient; hence, vigor.

Salient (v. i.) Moving by leaps or springs; leaping; bounding; jumping.

Salient (v. i.) Shooting out or up; springing; projecting.

Salient (v. i.) Hence, figuratively, forcing itself on the attention; prominent; conspicuous; noticeable.

Salient (v. i.) Projecting outwardly; as, a salient angle; -- opposed to reentering. See Illust. of Bastion.

Salient (v. i.) Represented in a leaping position; as, a lion salient.

Salient (a.) A salient angle or part; a projection.

Saliently (adv.) In a salient manner.

Saliferous (a.) Producing, or impregnated with, salt.

Salifiable (a.) Capable of neutralizing an acid to form a salt; -- said of bases; thus, ammonia is salifiable.

Salification (n.) The act, process, or result of salifying; the state of being salified.

Salified (imp. & p. p.) of Salify

Salifying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salify

Salify (v. t.) To combine or impregnate with a salt.

Salify (v. t.) To form a salt with; to convert into a salt; as, to salify a base or an acid.

Saligenin (n.) A phenol alcohol obtained, by the decomposition of salicin, as a white crystalline substance; -- called also hydroxy-benzyl alcohol.

Saligot (n.) The water chestnut (Trapa natans).

Salimeter (n.) An instrument for measuring the amount of salt present in any given solution.

Salimetry (n.) The art or process of measuring the amount of salt in a substance.

Salina (a.) A salt marsh, or salt pond, inclosed from the sea.

Salina (a.) Salt works.

Salina period () The period in which the American Upper Silurian system, containing the brine-producing rocks of central New York, was formed. See the Chart of Geology.

Salination (n.) The act of washing with salt water.

Saline (a.) Consisting of salt, or containing salt; as, saline particles; saline substances; a saline cathartic.

Saline (a.) Of the quality of salt; salty; as, a saline taste.

Saline (a.) A salt spring; a place where salt water is collected in the earth.

Saline (n.) A crude potash obtained from beet-root residues and other similar sources.

Saline (n.) A metallic salt; esp., a salt of potassium, sodium, lithium, or magnesium, used in medicine.

Salineness (n.) The quality or state of being salt; saltness.

Saliniferous (a.) Same as Saliferous.

Saliniform (a.) Having the form or the qualities of a salt, especially of common salt.

Salinity (n.) Salineness.

Salinometer (n.) A salimeter.

Salinous (a.) Saline.

Salique (a.) Salic.

Saliretin (n.) A yellow amorphous resinoid substance obtained by the action of dilute acids on saligenin.

Salisburia (n.) The ginkgo tree (Ginkgo biloba, or Salisburia adiantifolia).

Salite (v. t.) To season with salt; to salt.

Salite (n.) A massive lamellar variety of pyroxene, of a dingy green color.

Saliva (n.) The secretion from the salivary glands.

Salival (a.) Salivary.

Salivant (a.) Producing salivation.

Salivant (n.) That which produces salivation.

Salivary (a.) Of or pertaining to saliva; producing or carrying saliva; as, the salivary ferment; the salivary glands; the salivary ducts, etc.

Salivated (imp. & p. p.) of Salivate

Salivating (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Salivate

Salivate (v. t.) To produce an abnormal flow of saliva in; to produce salivation or ptyalism in, as by the use of mercury.

Salivate (v. i.) To produce saliva, esp. in excess.

Salivation (n.) The act or process of salivating; an excessive secretion of saliva, often accompanied with soreness of the mouth and gums; ptyalism.

Salivous (a.) Pertaining to saliva; of the nature of saliva.

Salices (pl. ) of Salix

Salix (n.) A genus of trees or shrubs including the willow, osier, and the like, growing usually in wet grounds.

Salix (n.) A tree or shrub of any kind of willow.

Sallenders (n. pl.) An eruption on the hind leg of a horse.

Sallet (n.) A light kind of helmet, with or without a visor, introduced during the 15th century.

Sallet (n.) Alt. of Salleting

Salleting (n.) Salad.

Salliance (n.) Salience.

Sallow (n.) The willow; willow twigs.

Sallow (n.) A name given to certain species of willow, especially those which do not have flexible shoots, as Salix caprea, S. cinerea, etc.

Sallow (superl.) Having a yellowish color; of a pale, sickly color, tinged with yellow; as, a sallow skin.

Sallow (v. t.) To tinge with sallowness.

Sallowish (a.) Somewhat sallow.

Sallowness (n.) The quality or condition of being sallow.

Sallied (imp. & p. p.) of Sally

Sallying (p. pr. & vb. n.) of Sally

Sally (v. i.) To leap or rush out; to burst forth; to issue suddenly; as a body of troops from a fortified place to attack besiegers; to make a sally.

Sallies (pl. ) of Sally

Sally (v.) A leaping forth; a darting; a spring.